Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
MEASURING MASSIVE MULTITASK
LANGUAGE UNDERSTANDING
Dan Hendrycks
UC BerkeleyCollin Burns
Columbia UniversitySteven Basart
UChicagoAndy Zou
UC Berkeley
Mantas Mazeika
UIUCDawn Song
UC BerkeleyJacob Steinhardt
UC Berkeley
ABSTRACT
We propose a new test to measure a text model’s multitask accuracy. The test
covers 57 tasks including elementary mathematics, US history, computer science,
law, and more. To attain high accuracy on this test, models must possess extensive
world knowledge and problem solving ability. We ﬁnd that while most recent
models have near random-chance accuracy, the very largest GPT-3 model improves
over random chance by almost 20 percentage points on average. However, on every
one of the 57 tasks, the best models still need substantial improvements before
they can reach expert-level accuracy. Models also have lopsided performance
and frequently do not know when they are wrong. Worse, they still have near-
random accuracy on some socially important subjects such as morality and law.
By comprehensively evaluating the breadth and depth of a model’s academic and
professional understanding, our test can be used to analyze models across many
tasks and to identify important shortcomings.
1 I NTRODUCTION
Natural Language Processing (NLP) models have achieved superhuman performance on a number of
recently proposed benchmarks. However, these models are still well below human level performance
for language understanding as a whole, suggesting a disconnect between our benchmarks and the
actual capabilities of these models. The General Language Understanding Evaluation benchmark
(GLUE) (Wang et al., 2018) was introduced in 2018 to evaluate performance on a wide range of NLP
tasks, and top models achieved superhuman performance within a year. To address the shortcomings
of GLUE, researchers designed the SuperGLUE benchmark with more difﬁcult tasks (Wang et al.,
2019). About a year since the release of SuperGLUE, performance is again essentially human-level
(Raffel et al., 2019). While these benchmarks evaluate linguistic skills more than overall language
understanding, an array of commonsense benchmarks have been proposed to measure basic reasoning
and everyday knowledge (Zellers et al., 2019; Huang et al., 2019; Bisk et al., 2019). However, these
recent benchmarks have similarly seen rapid progress (Khashabi et al., 2020). Overall, the near
human-level performance on these benchmarks suggests that they are not capturing important facets
of language understanding.
Transformer models have driven this recent progress by pretraining on massive text corpora, including
all of Wikipedia, thousands of books, and numerous websites. These models consequently see
extensive information about specialized topics, most of which is not assessed by existing NLP
benchmarks. It consequently remains an open question just how capable current language models are
at learning and applying knowledge from many domains.
To bridge the gap between the wide-ranging knowledge that models see during pretraining and the
existing measures of success, we introduce a new benchmark for assessing models across a diverse
set of subjects that humans learn. We design the benchmark to measure knowledge acquired during
pretraining by evaluating models exclusively in zero-shot and few-shot settings. This makes the
benchmark more challenging and more similar to how we evaluate humans. The benchmark covers
57subjects across STEM, the humanities, the social sciences, and more. It ranges in difﬁculty from
an elementary level to an advanced professional level, and it tests both world knowledge and problem
solving ability. Subjects range from traditional areas, such as mathematics and history, to more
1arXiv:2009.03300v3 [cs.CY] 12 Jan 2021
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
Few Shot Prompt and Predicted Answer
How many numbers are in the list 25, 26, ..., 100?
(A) 75 (B) 76 (C) 22 (D) 23
Answer: B
Compute i+i2+i3+···+i258+i259.
(A) -1 (B) 1 (C) i (D) -i
Answer: A
If 4 daps = 7 yaps, and 5 yaps = 3 baps,
how many daps equal 42 baps?
(A) 28 (B) 21 (C) 40 (D) 30
Answer: C␣The following are multiple choice questions
about high school mathematics.
(a) An example of few-shot learning and inference us-
ing GPT-3. The blue underlined bold text is the auto-
completed response from GPT-3, while the preceding
text is the user-inputted prompt. In this 2-shot learning
example, there are two instruction examples and one
initially incomplete example. On average, GPT-3 has
low accuracy on high school mathematics questions.
Small Medium Large X-Large
Model Size2030405060708090Performance (%)GPT-3 Few Shot Test Performance
Commonsense
Linguistics
Knowledge (Ours)(b) Performance on a commonsense benchmark (Hel-
laSwag), a linguistic understanding benchmark (Super-
GLUE), and the massive multitask test. On previous
benchmarks, smaller models start well above random
chance levels and exhibit more continuous improve-
ments with model size increases, but on our test, GPT-3
moves beyond random chance with the largest model.
specialized areas like law and ethics (Hendrycks et al., 2020). The granularity and breadth of the
subjects makes the benchmark ideal for identifying a model’s blind spots.
We ﬁnd that meaningful progress on our benchmark has only become possible in recent months. In
particular, few-shot models up to 13billion parameters (Brown et al., 2020) achieve random chance
performance of 25% accuracy, but the 175billion parameter GPT-3 model reaches a much higher
43:9%accuracy (see Figure 1b). On the other hand, unlike human professionals GPT-3 does not
excel at any single subject. Instead, we ﬁnd that performance is lopsided, with GPT-3 having almost
70% accuracy for its best subject but near-random performance for several other subjects.
Our results indicate that while recent advances have been impressive, state-of-the-art models still
struggle at learning and applying knowledge from pretraining. The tasks with near-random accuracy
include calculation-heavy subjects such as physics and mathematics and subjects related to human
values such as law and morality. This second weakness is particularly concerning because it will
be important for future models to have a strong understanding of what is legal and what is ethical.
Worryingly, we also ﬁnd that GPT-3 does not have an accurate sense of what it does or does not know
since its average conﬁdence can be up to 24% off from its actual accuracy. We comprehensively
evaluate the breadth and depth of a model’s text understanding by covering numerous topics that
humans are incentivized to learn. Since our test consists in 57tasks, it can be used to analyze
aggregate properties of models across tasks and to track important shortcomings. The test and code is
available at github.com/hendrycks/test.
2 R ELATED WORK
Pretraining. The dominant paradigm in NLP is to pretrain large models on massive text corpora
including educational books and websites. In the process, these models are exposed to information
about a wide range of topics. Petroni et al. (2019) found that recent models learn enough information
from pretraining that they can serve as knowledge bases. However, no prior work has comprehensively
measured the knowledge models have across many real-world domains.
Until recently, researchers primarily used ﬁne-tuned models on downstream tasks (Devlin et al., 2019).
However, larger pretrained models like GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) have made it possible to achieve
competitive performance without ﬁne-tuning by using few-shot learning, which removes the need for
a large ﬁne-tuning set. With the advent of strong zero-shot and few-shot learning, it is now possible
to curate a diverse set of tasks for evaluation and remove the possibility of models on “spurious cues”
(Geirhos et al., 2020; Hendrycks et al., 2019b) in a dataset to achieve high performance.
Benchmarks. Many recent benchmarks aim to assess a model’s general world knowledge and basic
reasoning ability by testing its “commonsense.” A number of commonsense benchmarks have been
2
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
As Seller, an encyclopedia salesman, approached the grounds on which Hermit's house was situated,
he saw a sign that said, "No salesmen. Trespassers will be prosecuted. Proceed at your own risk."
Although Seller had not been invited to enter, he ignored the sign and drove up the driveway toward
the house. As he rounded a curve, a powerful explosive charge buried in the driveway exploded, and
Seller was injured. Can Seller recover damages from Hermit for his injuries?
(A) Yes, unless Hermit, when he planted the charge, intended only to deter, not harm, intruders.
(B) Yes, if Hermit was responsible for the explosive charge under the driveway.
(C) No, because Seller ignored the sign, which warned him against proceeding further.
(D) No, if Hermit reasonably feared that intruders would come and harm him or his family.Professional Law
Figure 2: This task requires understanding detailed and dissonant scenarios, applying appropriate
legal precedents, and choosing the correct explanation. The green checkmark is the ground truth.
proposed in the past year, but recent models are already nearing human-level performance on several
of these, including HellaSwag (Zellers et al., 2019), Physical IQA (Bisk et al., 2019), and CosmosQA
(Huang et al., 2019). By design, these datasets assess abilities that almost every child has. In contrast,
we include harder specialized subjects that people must study to learn.
Some researchers have suggested that the future of NLP evaluation should focus on Natural Language
Generation (NLG) (Zellers et al., 2020), an idea that reaches back to the Turing Test (Turing, 1950).
However, NLG is notoriously difﬁcult to evaluate and lacks a standard metric (Sai et al., 2020).
Consequently, we instead create a simple-to-evaluate test that measures classiﬁcation accuracy on
multiple choice questions.
While several question answering benchmarks exist, they are comparatively limited in scope. Most
either cover easy topics like grade school subjects for which models can already achieve strong
performance (Clark et al., 2018; Khot et al., 2019; Mihaylov et al., 2018; Clark et al., 2019), or
are focused on linguistic understanding in the form of reading comprehension (Lai et al., 2017;
Richardson et al., 2013). In contrast, we include a wide range of difﬁcult subjects that go far beyond
linguistic understanding.
3 A M ULTITASK TEST
We create a massive multitask test consisting of multiple-choice questions from various branches of
knowledge. The test spans subjects in the humanities, social sciences, hard sciences, and other areas
that are important for some people to learn. There are 57tasks in total, which is also the number
of Atari games (Bellemare et al., 2013), all of which are listed in Appendix B. The questions in
the dataset were manually collected by graduate and undergraduate students from freely available
sources online. These include practice questions for tests such as the Graduate Record Examination
and the United States Medical Licensing Examination. It also includes questions designed for
undergraduate courses and questions designed for readers of Oxford University Press books. Some
tasks cover a subject, like psychology, but at a speciﬁc level of difﬁculty, such as “Elementary,”
“High School,” “College,” or “Professional.” For example, the “Professional Psychology” task draws
on questions from freely available practice questions for the Examination for Professional Practice
in Psychology, while the “High School Psychology” task has questions like those from Advanced
Placement Psychology examinations.
We collected 15908 questions in total, which we split into a few-shot development set, a validation
set, and a test set. The few-shot development set has 5questions per subject, the validation set may
be used for selecting hyperparameters and is made of 1540 questions, and the test set has 14079
questions. Each subject contains 100test examples at the minimum, which is longer than most exams
designed to assess people.
Human-level accuracy on this test varies. Unspecialized humans from Amazon Mechanical Turk
obtain 34:5%accuracy on this test. Meanwhile, expert-level performance can be far higher. For
example, real-world test-taker human accuracy at the 95th percentile is around 87% for US Medical
Licensing Examinations, and these questions make up our “Professional Medicine” task. If we take
the 95th percentile human test-taker accuracy for exams that build up our test, and if we make an
educated guess when such information is unavailable, we then estimate that expert-level accuracy is
approximately 89:8%.
Since our test aggregates different subjects and several levels of difﬁculty, we measure more than
straightforward commonsense or narrow linguistic understanding. Instead, we measure arbitrary
3
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
One of the reasons that the government discourages and regulates monopolies is that
(A) producer surplus is lost and consumer surplus is gained.
(B) monopoly prices ensure productive efficiency but cost society allocative efficiency.
(C) monopoly firms do not engage in significant research and development.
(D) consumer surplus is lost with higher prices and lower levels of output.Microeconomics
Figure 3: Examples from the Microeconomics task.
When you drop a ball from rest it accelerates downward at 9.8 m/s². If you instead throw it
downward assuming no air resistance its acceleration immediately after leaving your hand is
(A) 9.8 m/s²
(B) more than 9.8 m/s²
(C) less than 9.8 m/s²
(D) Cannot say unless the speed of throw is given.Conceptual
PhysicsCollege
MathematicsIn the complex z-plane, the set of points satisfying the equation z² = |z|² is a
(A) pair of points
(B) circle
(C) half-line
(D) line
Figure 4: Examples from the Conceptual Physics and College Mathematics STEM tasks.
real-world textunderstanding. Since models are pretrained on the Internet, this enables us to test
how well they can extract useful knowledge from massive corpora. Future models that use this test
could be single models or a mixture of experts model. To succeed at our test, future models should be
well-rounded, possess extensive world knowledge, and develop expert-level problem solving ability.
These properties make the test likely to be an enduring and informative goalpost.
3.1 H UMANITIES
The humanities is a group of disciplines that make use of qualitative analysis and analytic methods
rather than scientiﬁc empirical methods. Branches of the humanities include law, philosophy, history,
and so on (Appendix B). Mastering these subjects requires a variety of skills. For example, legal
understanding requires knowledge of how to apply rules and standards to complex scenarios, and
also provide answers with stipulations and explanations. We illustrate this in Figure 2. Legal
understanding is also necessary for understanding and following rules and regulations, a necessary
capability to constrain open-world machine learning models. For philosophy, our questions cover
concepts like logical fallacies, formal logic, and famous philosophical arguments. It also covers
moral scenarios, including questions from the ETHICS dataset (Hendrycks et al., 2020) that test a
model’s understanding of normative statements through predicting widespread moral intuitions about
diverse everyday scenarios. Finally, our history questions cover a wide range of time periods and
geographical locations, including prehistory and other advanced subjects.
3.2 S OCIAL SCIENCE
Social science includes branches of knowledge that examine human behavior and society. Subject
areas include economics, sociology, politics, geography, psychology, and so on. See Figure 3 for
an example question. Our economics questions include microeconomics, macroeconomics, and
econometrics, and cover different types of problems, including questions that require a mixture of
world knowledge, qualitative reasoning, or quantitative reasoning. We also include important but
more esoteric topics such as security studies in order to test the boundaries of what is experienced and
learned during pretraining. Social science also includes psychology, a ﬁeld that may be especially
important for attaining a nuanced understanding of humans.
3.3 S CIENCE , TECHNOLOGY , ENGINEERING ,AND MATHEMATICS (STEM)
STEM subjects include physics, computer science, mathematics, and more. Two examples are shown
in Figure 4. Conceptual physics tests understanding of simple physics principles and may be thought
4
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
A 33-year-old man undergoes a radical thyroidectomy for thyroid cancer. During the operation,
moderate hemorrhaging requires ligation of several vessels in the left side of the neck.
Postoperatively, serum studies show a calcium concentration of 7.5 mg/dL, albumin concentration
of 4 g/dL, and parathyroid hormone concentration of 200 pg/mL. Damage to which of the following
vessels caused the findings in this patient?
(A) Branch of the costocervical trunk
(B) Branch of the external carotid artery
(C) Branch of the thyrocervical trunk
(D) Tributary of the internal jugular veinProfessional Medicine
Figure 5: A question from the Professional Medicine task.
of as a harder version of the physical commonsense benchmark Physical IQA (Bisk et al., 2019). We
also test mathematical problem solving ability at various levels of difﬁculty, from the elementary to
the college level. College mathematics questions, like those found on the GRE mathematics subject
test, often require chains of reasoning and abstract knowledge. To encode mathematics expressions,
we use LaTeX or symbols such as * and ˆ for multiplication and exponentiation respectively. STEM
subjects require knowledge of empirical methods, ﬂuid intelligence, and procedural knowledge.
3.4 O THER
There is a long tail of subjects that either do not neatly ﬁt into any of the three preceding categories or
for which there are not thousands of freely available questions. We put these subjects into Other. This
section includes the Professional Medicine task, which has difﬁcult questions that require humans
many years of study to master. An example is depicted in Figure 5. This section also contains
business topics like ﬁnance, accounting, and marketing, as well as knowledge of global facts. The
latter includes statistics about poverty in different countries over time, which may be necessary for
having an accurate model of the world internationally.
4 E XPERIMENTS
4.1 S ETUP
Assessment and Models. To measure performance on our multitask test, we compute the clas-
siﬁcation accuracy across all examples and tasks. We evaluate GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) and
UniﬁedQA (Khashabi et al., 2020). For GPT-3 we use the OpenAI API, which provides access to four
model variants, “Ada,” “Babbage,” “Curie,” and “Davinci,” which we refer to as “Small” ( 2:7billion
parameters), “Medium” ( 6:7billion), “Large” ( 13billion) and “X-Large” ( 175billion). UniﬁedQA
uses the T5 (Raffel et al., 2019) text-to-text backbone and is ﬁne-tuned on previously proposed
question answering datasets (Lai et al., 2017), where the prediction is the class with the highest
token overlap with UniﬁedQA’s text output. Since UniﬁedQA is ﬁne-tuned on other datasets, we
evaluate it without any further tuning to assess its transfer accuracy. We also ﬁne-tune RoBERTa-base,
ALBERT-xxlarge, and GPT-2 on UniﬁedQA training data and our dev+val set. We primarily focus on
UniﬁedQA and GPT-3 in the rest of this document, but additional discussion of RoBERTa, ALBERT,
and GPT-2 is in Appendix A.
Model Humanities Social Science STEM Other Average
Random Baseline 25.0 25.0 25.0 25.0 25.0
RoBERTa 27.9 28.8 27.0 27.7 27.9
ALBERT 27.2 25.7 27.7 27.9 27.1
GPT-2 32.8 33.3 30.2 33.1 32.4
UniﬁedQA 45.6 56.6 40.2 54.6 48.9
GPT-3 Small (few-shot) 24.4 30.9 26.0 24.1 25.9
GPT-3 Medium (few-shot) 26.1 21.6 25.6 25.5 24.9
GPT-3 Large (few-shot) 27.1 25.6 24.3 26.5 26.0
GPT-3 X-Large (few-shot) 40.8 50.4 36.7 48.8 43.9
Table 1: Average weighted accuracy for each model on all four broad disciplines. All values are
percentages. Some models proposed in the past few months can move several percent points beyond
random chance. GPT-3 uses few-shot learning and UniﬁedQA is tested under distribution shift.
5
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
0 20 40 60 80 100
Accuracy (%)World ReligionsVirologyUS Foreign PolicySociologySecurity StudiesPublic RelationsProfessional PsychologyProfessional MedicineProfessional LawProfessional AccountingPrehistoryPhilosophyNutritionMoral ScenariosMoral DisputesMiscellaneousMedical GeneticsMarketingManagementMachine LearningLogical FallaciesJurisprudenceInternational LawHuman SexualityHuman AgingHigh School World HistoryHigh School US HistoryHigh School StatisticsHigh School PsychologyHigh School PhysicsHigh School MicroeconomicsHigh School MathematicsHigh School MacroeconomicsHigh School Gov't and PoliticsHigh School GeographyHigh School European HistoryHigh School Comp SciHigh School ChemistryHigh School BiologyGlobal FactsFormal LogicElementary MathematicsElectrical EngineeringEconometricsConceptual PhysicsComputer SecurityCollege PhysicsCollege MedicineCollege MathematicsCollege Comp SciCollege ChemistryCollege BiologyClinical KnowledgeBusiness EthicsAstronomyAnatomyAbstract AlgebraGPT-3
UnifiedQA
Random
Figure 6: GPT-3 (few-shot) and UniﬁedQA results.Few-Shot Prompt. We feed GPT-3 prompts
like that shown in Figure 1a. We begin each
prompt with “The following are multiple choice
questions (with answers) about [subject].” For
zero-shot evaluation, we append the question to
the prompt. For few-shot evaluation, we add up
to5demonstration examples with answers to
the prompt before appending the question. All
prompts end with “Answer: ”. The model then
produces probabilities for the tokens “A,” “B,”
“C,” and “D,” and we treat the highest probability
option as the prediction. For consistent evalua-
tion, we create a dev set with 5ﬁxed few-shot
examples for each subject.
4.2 R ESULTS
Model Size and Accuracy. We compare the
few-shot accuracy of each GPT-3 size in Table 1.
We ﬁnd that the three smaller GPT-3 models
have near random accuracy (around 25%). In
contrast, we ﬁnd that the X-Large 175billion
parameter GPT-3 model performs substantially
better than random, with an accuracy of 43:9%.
We also ﬁnd qualitatively similar results in the
zero-shot setting. While the smaller models
have around 25% zero-shot accuracy, Figure 10
in Appendix A shows that the largest GPT-3
model has a much higher zero-shot accuracy of
about 37:7%. Brown et al. (2020) also observe
that larger GPT-3 models perform better, though
progress tends to be steadier. In Figure 1b we
show that non-random accuracy on the multitask
test emerged with recent large few-shot models
compared to datasets that assess commonsense
and linguistic understanding.
To test the usefulness of ﬁne-tuning instead of
few-shot learning, we also evaluate UniﬁedQA
models. UniﬁedQA has the advantage of being
ﬁne-tuned on other question answering datasets,
unlike GPT-3. We assess UniﬁedQA by evalu-
ating its transfer performance without any ad-
ditional ﬁne-tuning. The largest UniﬁedQA
model we test has 11billion parameters, which
is slightly smaller than GPT-3 Large. Neverthe-
less, we show in Table 1 that it attains 48:9%
accuracy. This performs better than the few-shot GPT-3 X-Large model, despite UniﬁedQA have
an order of magnitude fewer parameters. We also ﬁnd that even the smallest UniﬁedQA variant,
with just 60million parameters, has approximately 29:3%accuracy. These results suggest that while
model size is a key component for achieving strong performance, ﬁne-tuning also helps.
Comparing Disciplines. Using our test, we discover that GPT-3 and UniﬁedQA have lopsided
performance and several substantial knowledge gaps. Figure 6 shows the accuracy of GPT-3 (few-
shot) and UniﬁedQA for all 57tasks. It shows the both models are below expert-level performance
for all tasks, with GPT-3’s accuracy ranging from 69% for US Foreign Policy to 26% for College
Chemistry. UniﬁedQA does best on marketing, with an accuracy of 82:5%.
Overall, models do poorly on highly procedural problems. Figure 6 shows that calculation-heavy
STEM subjects tend to have low accuracy compared to verbal subjects. For GPT-3, 9out of the 10
6
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
Declarative vs. Procedural Knowledge
Prompt and Completion:
The order of operations or PEMDAS is
Parentheses Exponents Multiplication
Division Addition Subtraction
Prompt and Completion:
(1 + 1) × 2 = 3␣
Figure 7: GPT-3’s completion for two prompts
testing knowledge of the order of operations. The
blue underlined bold text is the autocompleted
response from GPT-3. While it knows about the
order of operations, it sometimes does not know
how to apply its knowledge.
20
30
40
50
60
Confidence (%)
20
30
40
50
60Accuracy (%)
GPT-3 Zero-Shot Calibration
Formal LogicMarketing Figure 8: GPT-3’s conﬁdence is a poor estimator
of its accuracy and can be off by up to 24%.
lowest-accuracy tasks are STEM subjects that emphasize mathematics or calculations. We speculate
that is in part because GPT-3 acquires declarative knowledge more readily than procedural knowledge.
For example, many questions in Elementary Mathematics require applying the order of operations
for arithmetic, which is described by the acronym PEMDAS (Parentheses Exponents Multiplication
Division Addition Subtraction). In Figure 7, we conﬁrm that GPT-3 is aware of the acronym
PEMDAS. However, it does not consistently apply PEMDAS to actual problems. On the other hand,
procedural understanding is not its only weak point. We ﬁnd that some verbal tasks such as Moral
Scenarios from Hendrycks et al. (2020) and Professional Law also have especially low accuracy.
Our test also shows that GPT-3 acquires knowledge quite unlike humans. For example, GPT-3 learns
about topics in a pedagogically unusual order. GPT-3 does better on College Medicine ( 47:4%)
and College Mathematics ( 35:0%) than calculation-heavy Elementary Mathematics ( 29:9%). GPT-3
demonstrates unusual breadth, but it does not master a single subject. Meanhwhile we suspect humans
have mastery in several subjects but not as much breadth. In this way, our test shows that GPT-3 has
many knowledge blindspots and has capabilities that are lopsided.
Calibration. We should not trust a model’s prediction unless the model is calibrated, meaning
that its conﬁdence is a good estimate of the actual probability the prediction is correct. However,
large neural networks are often miscalibrated (Guo et al., 2017), especially under distribution shift
(Ovadia et al., 2019). We evaluate the calibration of GPT-3 by testing how well its average conﬁdence
estimates its actual accuracy for each subject. We show the results in Figure 8, which demonstrates
that GPT-3 is uncalibrated. In fact, its conﬁdence is only weakly related to its actual accuracy in
the zero-shot setting, with the difference between its accuracy and conﬁdence reaching up to 24%
for some subjects. Another calibration measure is the Root Mean Squared (RMS) calibration error
(Hendrycks et al., 2019a; Kumar et al., 2019). Many tasks have miscalibrated predictions, such as
Elementary Mathematics which has a zero-shot RMS calibration error of 19.4%. Models are only
somewhat more calibrated in the few-shot setting, as shown in Appendix A. These results suggest
that model calibration has wide room for improvement.
5 D ISCUSSION
Multimodal Understanding. While text is capable of conveying an enormous number of concepts
about the world, many important concepts are conveyed mainly through other modalities, such as
images, audio, and physical interaction (Bisk et al., 2020). Existing large-scale NLP models, such as
GPT-3, do not incorporate multimodal information, so we design our benchmark to capture a diverse
array of tasks in a text-only format. However, as models gain the ability to process multimodal inputs,
benchmarks should be designed to reﬂect this change. One such benchmark could be a “Turk Test,”
consisting of Amazon Mechanical Turk Human Intelligence Tasks. These are well-deﬁned tasks that
require models to interact with ﬂexible formats and demonstrate multimodal understanding.
The Internet as a Training Set. A major distinction between our benchmark and previous multitask
NLP benchmarks is that we do not require large training sets. Instead, we assume that models have
acquired the requisite knowledge from reading vast quantities of diverse text from the Internet. This
7
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
process is typically called pretraining, but it can be thought of as training in its own right, where the
downstream evaluation is demonstrating whatever knowledge we would expect a human to pick up
from reading the same text.
This motivates us to propose a methodological change so that models are trained more like how
humans learn. While most previous machine learning benchmarks have models learn from a large
question bank, humans primarily learn new subjects by reading books and listening to others talk
about the topic. For specialized subjects such as Professional Law, massive legal corpora are available,
such as the 164-volume legal encyclopedia Corpus Juris Secundum , but there are fewer than 5,000
multistate bar exam questions available. Learning the entire law exclusively through a small number
of practice tests is implausible, so future models must learn more during pretraining.
For this reason we assess pretrained models in a zero-shot, few-shot, or transfer setting and we provide
a dev, val, and test set for each task. The dev set is used for few-shot prompts, the val set could be
used for hyperparameter tuning, and the test set is used to compute the ﬁnal accuracy. Importantly,
the format of our evaluation is not identical to the format in which information is acquired during
pretraining. This has the beneﬁt of obviating concerns about spurious training set annotation artifacts
(Geirhos et al., 2020; Hendrycks et al., 2019b) and is in stark contrast to the previous paradigm
of identically distributed training and test sets. This change also enables collecting a much more
extensive and diverse set of tasks for evaluation. We anticipate our methodology becoming more
widespread as models improve at extracting information from diverse online sources.
Model Limitations. We ﬁnd that current large-scale Transformers have wide room for improvement.
They are notably poor at modeling human (dis)approval, as evident by the low performance on the
Professional Law and Moral Scenarios tasks. For future systems to be aligned with human values, high
performance on these tasks is crucial (Hendrycks et al., 2020), so future research should especially
aim to increase accuracy on these tasks. Models also have difﬁculty performing calculations, so much
so that they exhibit poor performance on Elementary Mathematics and many other STEM subjects
with “plug and chug” problems. Additionally, they do not match expert-level performance (90%) on
any subject, so for all subjects it is subhuman. On average, models are only now starting to move
beyond random-chance accuracy levels.
Addressing these shortcomings may be challenging. To illustrate this, we attempted to create a better
Professional Law model by pretraining on specialized data but achieved only limited success. We
collected approximately 2,000 additional Professional Law training examples. After ﬁne-tuning a
RoBERTa-base model (Liu et al., 2019) using this custom training set, our model attained 32:8%test
accuracy. To test the impact of additional specialized training data, we also had RoBERTa continue
pretraining on approximately 1.6 million legal case summaries using Harvard’s Law Library case law
corpus case.law , but after ﬁne-tuning it only attained 36:1%accuracy. This suggests that while
additional pretraining on relevant high quality text can help, it may not be enough to substantially
increase the performance of current models.
It is unclear whether simply scaling up existing language models will solve the test. Current
understanding indicates that a 10increase in model size must be accompanied by an approximate
5increase in data (Kaplan et al., 2020). Aside from the tremendous expense in creating multi-trillion
parameter language models, data may also become a bottleneck, as there is far less written about
esoteric branches of knowledge than about everyday situations.
6 C ONCLUSION
We introduced a new test that measures how well text models can learn and apply knowledge
encountered during pretraining. By covering 57 subjects at varying levels of difﬁculty, the test
assesses language understanding in greater breadth and depth than previous benchmarks. We found
that it has recently become possible for models to make meaningful progress on the test, but that
state-of-the-art models have lopsided performance and rarely excel at any individual task. We also
showed that current models are uncalibrated and have difﬁculty with tasks that require calculations.
Worryingly, models also perform especially poorly on socially relevant subjects including morality
and law. Our expansive test can help researchers pinpoint important shortcomings of models, making
it easier to gain a clearer picture of state-of-the-art capabilities.
8
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We would like to thank the following for their helpful comments: Oyvind Tafjord, Jan Leike, David
Krueger, Alex Tamkin, Girish Sastry, and Henry Zhu. DH is supported by the NSF GRFP Fellowship
and an Open Philanthropy Project Fellowship. This research was also supported by the NSF Frontier
Award 1804794.
REFERENCES
M. G. Bellemare, Y . Naddaf, J. Veness, and M. Bowling. The arcade learning environment: An
evaluation platform for general agents (extended abstract). J. Artif. Intell. Res. , 47:253–279, 2013.
Y . Bisk, R. Zellers, R. L. Bras, J. Gao, and Y . Choi. Piqa: Reasoning about physical commonsense in
natural language, 2019.
Y . Bisk, A. Holtzman, J. Thomason, J. Andreas, Y . Bengio, J. Chai, M. Lapata, A. Lazaridou, J. May,
A. Nisnevich, N. Pinto, and J. Turian. Experience grounds language, 2020.
T. B. Brown, B. Mann, N. Ryder, M. Subbiah, J. Kaplan, P. Dhariwal, A. Neelakantan, P. Shyam,
G. Sastry, A. Askell, S. Agarwal, A. Herbert-V oss, G. Krueger, T. Henighan, R. Child, A. Ramesh,
D. M. Ziegler, J. Wu, C. Winter, C. Hesse, M. Chen, E. Sigler, M. Litwin, S. Gray, B. Chess,
J. Clark, C. Berner, S. McCandlish, A. Radford, I. Sutskever, and D. Amodei. Language models
are few-shot learners, 2020.
P. Clark, I. Cowhey, O. Etzioni, T. Khot, A. Sabharwal, C. Schoenick, and O. Tafjord. Think you have
solved question answering? try arc, the ai2 reasoning challenge. ArXiv , abs/1803.05457, 2018.
P. Clark, O. Etzioni, D. Khashabi, T. Khot, B. D. Mishra, K. Richardson, A. Sabharwal, C. Schoenick,
O. Tafjord, N. Tandon, S. Bhakthavatsalam, D. Groeneveld, M. Guerquin, and M. Schmitz. From ’f’
to ’a’ on the n.y. regents science exams: An overview of the aristo project. ArXiv , abs/1909.01958,
2019.
J. Devlin, M.-W. Chang, K. Lee, and K. Toutanova. Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional
transformers for language understanding. ArXiv , abs/1810.04805, 2019.
R. Geirhos, J.-H. Jacobsen, C. Michaelis, R. Zemel, W. Brendel, M. Bethge, and F. A. Wichmann.
Shortcut learning in deep neural networks, 2020.
C. Guo, G. Pleiss, Y . Sun, and K. Q. Weinberger. On calibration of modern neural networks. ICML ,
2017.
D. Hendrycks, M. Mazeika, and T. Dietterich. Deep anomaly detection with outlier exposure. ICLR ,
2019a.
D. Hendrycks, K. Zhao, S. Basart, J. Steinhardt, and D. Song. Natural adversarial examples. ArXiv ,
abs/1907.07174, 2019b.
D. Hendrycks, C. Burns, S. Basart, A. Critch, J. Li, D. Song, and J. Steinhardt. Aligning ai with
shared human values, 2020.
L. Huang, R. L. Bras, C. Bhagavatula, and Y . Choi. Cosmos qa: Machine reading comprehension
with contextual commonsense reasoning, 2019.
J. Kaplan, S. McCandlish, T. Henighan, T. B. Brown, B. Chess, R. Child, S. Gray, A. Radford, J. Wu,
and D. Amodei. Scaling laws for neural language models, 2020.
D. Khashabi, T. Khot, A. Sabharwal, O. Tafjord, P. Clark, and H. Hajishirzi. Uniﬁedqa: Crossing
format boundaries with a single qa system, 2020.
T. Khot, P. Clark, M. Guerquin, P. Jansen, and A. Sabharwal. Qasc: A dataset for question answering
via sentence composition, 2019.
A. Kumar, P. Liang, and T. Ma. Veriﬁed uncertainty calibration, 2019.
9
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
G. Lai, Q. Xie, H. Liu, Y . Yang, and E. Hovy. Race: Large-scale reading comprehension dataset from
examinations, 2017.
Z. Lan, M. Chen, S. Goodman, K. Gimpel, P. Sharma, and R. Soricut. Albert: A lite bert for
self-supervised learning of language representations. ArXiv , abs/1909.11942, 2020.
Y . Liu, M. Ott, N. Goyal, J. Du, M. Joshi, D. Chen, O. Levy, M. Lewis, L. Zettlemoyer, and
V . Stoyanov. Roberta: A robustly optimized bert pretraining approach. ArXiv , abs/1907.11692,
2019.
T. Mihaylov, P. Clark, T. Khot, and A. Sabharwal. Can a suit of armor conduct electricity? a new
dataset for open book question answering. In EMNLP , 2018.
Y . Ovadia, E. Fertig, J. Ren, Z. Nado, D. Sculley, S. Nowozin, J. V . Dillon, B. Lakshminarayanan,
and J. Snoek. Can you trust your model’s uncertainty? Evaluating predictive uncertainty under
dataset shift. NeurIPS , 2019.
F. Petroni, T. Rocktäschel, P. Lewis, A. Bakhtin, Y . Wu, A. H. Miller, and S. Riedel. Language
models as knowledge bases?, 2019.
A. Radford, J. Wu, R. Child, D. Luan, D. Amodei, and I. Sutskever. Language models are unsupervised
multitask learners. 2019.
C. Raffel, N. Shazeer, A. Roberts, K. Lee, S. Narang, M. Matena, Y . Zhou, W. Li, and P. J. Liu.
Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a uniﬁed text-to-text transformer, 2019.
M. Richardson, C. J. Burges, and E. Renshaw. MCTest: A challenge dataset for the open-domain
machine comprehension of text. In Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing , pages 193–203, Seattle, Washington, USA, Oct. 2013. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
A. B. Sai, A. K. Mohankumar, and M. M. Khapra. A survey of evaluation metrics used for nlg
systems. 2020.
A. Turing. Computing machinery and intelligence. 1950.
A. Wang, A. Singh, J. Michael, F. Hill, O. Levy, and S. R. Bowman. Glue: A multi-task benchmark
and analysis platform for natural language understanding, 2018.
A. Wang, Y . Pruksachatkun, N. Nangia, A. Singh, J. Michael, F. Hill, O. Levy, and S. R. Bowman.
Superglue: A stickier benchmark for general-purpose language understanding systems, 2019.
R. Zellers, A. Holtzman, Y . Bisk, A. Farhadi, and Y . Choi. Hellaswag: Can a machine really ﬁnish
your sentence?, 2019.
R. Zellers, A. Holtzman, E. Clark, L. Qin, A. Farhadi, and Y . Choi. Evaluating machines by their
real-world language use, 2020.
10
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
A A DDITIONAL ANALYSIS
This appendix includes ﬁgures with sorted results (Figure 9), few-shot examples vs. accuracy
(Figure 10), and few-shot calibration (Figure 11). It also includes sections on ﬁne-tuning, error
analysis, and format sensitivity.
0 20 40 60 80 100
Accuracy (%)College ChemistryMoral ScenariosCollege PhysicsHigh School PhysicsHigh School MathematicsFormal LogicElementary MathematicsAbstract AlgebraHigh School StatisticsMachine LearningEconometricsHigh School ChemistryProfessional AccountingProfessional LawCollege MathematicsProfessional MedicineConceptual PhysicsGlobal FactsHigh School Comp SciMedical GeneticsHigh School MacroeconomicsHigh School MicroeconomicsMoral DisputesProfessional PsychologyCollege BiologyVirologyCollege Comp SciBusiness EthicsNutritionCollege MedicineAnatomyClinical KnowledgeLogical FallaciesHigh School BiologyPublic RelationsAstronomyElectrical EngineeringHuman AgingPhilosophySecurity StudiesPrehistoryHigh School US HistorySociologyHigh School European HistoryHuman SexualityJurisprudenceWorld ReligionsInternational LawHigh School World HistoryManagementComputer SecurityHigh School GeographyHigh School Gov't and PoliticsMarketingMiscellaneousHigh School PsychologyUS Foreign PolicyGPT-3 Results
Random Chance
0102030405060708090100
Accuracy (%)Moral ScenariosFormal LogicAbstract AlgebraEconometricsHigh School MathematicsCollege PhysicsMachine LearningHigh School StatisticsCollege ChemistryElementary MathematicsCollege MathematicsHigh School ChemistryGlobal FactsProfessional LawMedical GeneticsProfessional AccountingCollege BiologyHigh School PhysicsAnatomyCollege Comp SciConceptual PhysicsCollege MedicineVirologyProfessional MedicineAstronomyHigh School MacroeconomicsElectrical EngineeringProfessional PsychologySecurity StudiesHuman SexualityNutritionHigh School Comp SciPrehistoryClinical KnowledgeHigh School BiologyHuman AgingHigh School MicroeconomicsPhilosophyPublic RelationsWorld ReligionsMoral DisputesLogical FallaciesHigh School European HistoryHigh School US HistoryHigh School World HistoryMiscellaneousUS Foreign PolicyComputer SecuritySociologyInternational LawHigh School GeographyJurisprudenceBusiness EthicsHigh School PsychologyManagementHigh School Gov't and PoliticsMarketingUnifiedQA Results
Random Chance
Figure 9: On the left are GPT-3 few shot accuracies for all of the 57tasks. On the right are UniﬁedQA
transfer accuracies for all of the 57tasks. For both models, capabilities are lopsided.
A.1 A NALYSIS WITH MORE FINE-TUNED MODELS
We primarily analyzed models with more than 10billion parameters in the main body of the paper.
For this section, we analyze smaller models including RoBERTa-base (125 million parameters) (Liu
11
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
et al., 2019), ALBERT-xxlarge (223 million parameters) (Lan et al., 2020), and GPT-2 (1,558 million
parameters) (Radford et al., 2019). Models are ﬁne-tuned to predict one of four classes using the
UniﬁedQA MCQ questions and using our dev+val set. We test on our multitask test set.
We observe that these smaller models can attain better-than-random accuracy. RoBERTa-base attains
an overall accuracy of 27:9%, with 27:9%accuracy for the humanities, 28:8%for social sciences,
27:0%for STEM, and 27:7%for other. ALBERT-xxlarge attains an accuracy of 27:1%, with 27:2%
accuracy for the humanities, 25:7%for the social sciences, 27:7%for STEM, and 27:9%for other.
GPT-2 attains an accuracy of 32:4%, with 32:8%accuracy for the humanities, 33:3%for the social
sciences, 30:2%for STEM, and 33:1%for other.
Compare this to UniﬁedQA’s smallest variant, which has just 60million parameters and approximately
29:3%accuracy. It obtains higher accuracy than RoBERTa and ALBERT, even though it has fewer
parameters. This suggests that its larger pretraining dataset enables higher accuracy. Likewise,
UniﬁedQA with 3billion parameters attains 43:7%, while the similarly sized GPT-2 model with 1:5
billion parameters attains 32:4%accuracy. This again suggests that T5’s larger pretraining dataset
size (and therefore UniﬁedQA’s pretraining dataset size) can increase accuracy.
A.2 E RROR ANALYSIS
We qualitatively analyze when GPT-3 makes high conﬁdence mistakes. We ﬁnd that while many of
these mistakes were clearly wrong, many were mistakes that a human might make. For example,
one question it got wrong was “How many chromosomes do all human somatic cells contain?” The
correct answer is 46, while few-shot GPT-3 predicted 23with conﬁdence 97:5%. This answer would
have been correct if the question asked about the number of pairs of chromosomes. Similarly, many
of its other high conﬁdence mistakes were also correct answers to slightly different questions.
A.3 F ORMAT SENSITIVITY
While different question formatting choices often lead to similar GPT-3 accuracies, we ﬁnd that
UniﬁedQA is more sensitive. UniﬁedQA’s input format is of the form
QUESTION1 \\n (A) CHOICE1 (B) CHOICE2 (C) CHOICE3 (D) CHOICE4</s>
where questions and choices are normalized and made lowercase. If we remove the </s> from the
input, accuracy declines by several percentage points.
12
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
0-Shot 1-Shot 2-Shot 3-Shot 4-Shot 5-Shot
Number of Examples in Context3035404550Accuracy (%)
GPT-3 Multitask Accuracy vs.
Number of Examples in Context
Figure 10: As the number of few-shot instruction
examples increases, the accuracy monotonically
increases. Notably, zero-shot performance is only
somewhat lower than 5-shot accuracy.
20 30 40 50 60 70
Confidence (%)203040506070Accuracy (%)
GPT-3 Few-Shot CalibrationFigure 11: While models are more calibrated in
a few-shot setting than a zero-shot setting, they
are still miscalibrated, with gap between accuracy
and conﬁdence reaching up to 14%. Here the
correlation between conﬁdence and accuracy is
r= 0:81, compared to r= 0:63in the zero-shot
setting.
B T ESTDETAILS
B.1 T ASK DESCRIPTIONS AND EXAMPLES
We provide analysis of question length and difﬁculty in Figure 12. We list all tasks and the topics
they test in Table 2. We also provide an example for each task starting with Figure 14.
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
Question Length (Characters)0.00.20.40.60.81.0Confidence of True Label
GPT-3 Question Length and Correctness
0 250 500 750 1000 1250
Average Question Length (Characters)0.00.20.40.60.81.0Subject Accuracy
GPT-3 Average Question Length and
Accuracy by Subject
Figure 12: Figures on the relation between question difﬁculty and question length. For questions
longer than a tweet (280 characters), the correlation between question length and true label conﬁdence
is slightly positive. This shows that longer questions are not necessarily harder.
B.2 E XACT QUESTION AND ANSWER CONTAMINATION
Since language models train on vast text corpora, there is some chance that they have seen the exact
question and answer during pretraining. If they memorized the exact question and answer, then
they would attain higher accuracy than their true ability. Likewise, a question’s entropy would be
especially low if it were memorized. Memorized questions and answers should have low entropy and
13
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
high accuracy. However, in Figure 13, we see that accuracy and question entropy are not positively
correlated, suggesting that the test’s low-entropy questions do not correspond to memorized (and
thereby correctly predicted) answers. This suggests that our exact questions were not memorized.
However, during pretraining models encountered text related to our questions through processing
Wikipedia. We also note that most of our questions came from PDFs or websites where questions and
answers are on separate pages.
See Brown et al. (2020) for a previous discussion of contamination showing that the phenomena
hardly affects performance. To reduce the probability that future models encounter exact questions
during test-time, we will provide a list of question sources.
2.8
 2.6
 2.4
 2.2
 2.0
 1.8
Log Probability Per Token2030405060Accuracy (%)
GPT-3 Zero-Shot
Prompt Compression and Accuracy
2.4
 2.2
 2.0
 1.8
 1.6
 1.4
 1.2
Log Probability Per Token203040506070Accuracy (%)
GPT-3 Few-Shot
Prompt Compression and Accuracy
Figure 13: The average log probability of the question (without answer) is not strongly positively
correlated with accuracy, all else equal. Each point corresponds to a task. Higher log probability
indicates higher compression, and especially high log probability would suggest memorization. In
the zero-shot question prompt, the correlation between average log probability and accuracy is
r= 0:43, and for the few-shot setting the correlation is r= 0:56.
14
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
Task Tested Concepts Supercategory
Abstract Algebra Groups, rings, ﬁelds, vector spaces, ... STEM
Anatomy Central nervous system, circulatory system, ... STEM
Astronomy Solar system, galaxies, asteroids, ... STEM
Business Ethics Corporate responsibility, stakeholders, regulation, ... Other
Clinical Knowledge Spot diagnosis, joints, abdominal examination, ... Other
College Biology Cellular structure, molecular biology, ecology, ... STEM
College Chemistry Analytical, organic, inorganic, physical, ... STEM
College Computer Science Algorithms, systems, graphs, recursion, ... STEM
College Mathematics Differential equations, real analysis, combinatorics, ... STEM
College Medicine Introductory biochemistry, sociology, reasoning, ... Other
College Physics Electromagnetism, thermodynamics, special relativity, ... STEM
Computer Security Cryptography, malware, side channels, fuzzing, ... STEM
Conceptual Physics Newton’s laws, rotational motion, gravity, sound, ... STEM
Econometrics V olatility, long-run relationships, forecasting, ... Social Sciences
Electrical Engineering Circuits, power systems, electrical drives, ... STEM
Elementary Mathematics Word problems, multiplication, remainders, rounding, ... STEM
Formal Logic Propositions, predicate logic, ﬁrst-order logic, ... Humanities
Global Facts Extreme poverty, literacy rates, life expectancy, ... Other
High School Biology Natural selection, heredity, cell cycle, Krebs cycle, ... STEM
High School Chemistry Chemical reactions, ions, acids and bases, ... STEM
High School Computer Science Arrays, conditionals, iteration, inheritance, ... STEM
High School European History Renaissance, reformation, industrialization, ... Humanities
High School Geography Population migration, rural land-use, urban processes, ... Social Sciences
High School Gov’t and Politics Branches of government, civil liberties, political ideologies, ... Social Sciences
High School Macroeconomics Economic indicators, national income, international trade, ... Social Sciences
High School Mathematics Pre-algebra, algebra, trigonometry, calculus, ... STEM
High School Microeconomics Supply and demand, imperfect competition, market failure, ... Social Sciences
High School Physics Kinematics, energy, torque, ﬂuid pressure, ... STEM
High School Psychology Behavior, personality, emotions, learning, ... Social Sciences
High School Statistics Random variables, sampling distributions, chi-square tests, ... STEM
High School US History Civil War, the Great Depression, The Great Society, ... Humanities
High School World History Ottoman empire, economic imperialism, World War I, ... Humanities
Human Aging Senescence, dementia, longevity, personality changes, ... Other
Human Sexuality Pregnancy, sexual differentiation, sexual orientation, ... Social Sciences
International Law Human rights, sovereignty, law of the sea, use of force, ... Humanities
Jurisprudence Natural law, classical legal positivism, legal realism, ... Humanities
Logical Fallacies No true Scotsman, base rate fallacy, composition fallacy, ... Humanities
Machine Learning SVMs, VC dimension, deep learning architectures, ... STEM
Management Organizing, communication, organizational structure, ... Other
Marketing Segmentation, pricing, market research, ... Other
Medical Genetics Genes and cancer, common chromosome disorders, ... Other
Miscellaneous Agriculture, Fermi estimation, pop culture, ... Other
Moral Disputes Freedom of speech, addiction, the death penalty, ... Humanities
Moral Scenarios Detecting physical violence, stealing, externalities, ... Humanities
Nutrition Metabolism, water-soluble vitamins, diabetes, ... Other
Philosophy Skepticism, phronesis, skepticism, Singer’s Drowning Child, ... Humanities
Prehistory Neanderthals, Mesoamerica, extinction, stone tools, ... Humanities
Professional Accounting Auditing, reporting, regulation, valuation, ... Other
Professional Law Torts, criminal law, contracts, property, evidence, ... Humanities
Professional Medicine Diagnosis, pharmacotherapy, disease prevention, ... Other
Professional Psychology Diagnosis, biology and behavior, lifespan development, ... Social Sciences
Public Relations Media theory, crisis management, intelligence gathering, ... Social Sciences
Security Studies Environmental security, terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, ... Social Sciences
Sociology Socialization, cities and community, inequality and wealth, ... Social Sciences
US Foreign Policy Soft power, Cold War foreign policy, isolationism, ... Social Sciences
Virology Epidemiology, coronaviruses, retroviruses, herpesviruses, ... Other
World Religions Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, Jainism, ... Humanities
Table 2: Summary of all 57tasks.
15
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
Find allcinZ3such that Z3[x]=(x2+c)is a ﬁeld.
(A) 0 (B) 1 (C) 2 (D) 3
Figure 14: An Abstract Algebra example.
What is the embryological origin of the hyoid bone?
(A) The ﬁrst pharyngeal arch
(B) The ﬁrst and second pharyngeal arches
(C) The second pharyngeal arch
(D) The second and third pharyngeal arches
Figure 15: An Anatomy example.
Why isn’t there a planet where the asteroid belt is located?
(A) A planet once formed here but it was broken apart by a catastrophic collision.
(B) There was not enough material in this part of the solar nebula to form a planet.
(C) There was too much rocky material to form a terrestrial planet but not enough gaseous material
to form a jovian planet.
(D) Resonance with Jupiter prevented material from collecting together to form a planet.
Figure 16: An Astronomy example.
Three contrasting tactics that CSO’s can engage in to meet their aims are which typi-
cally involves research and communication, , which may involve physically attacking a
company’s operations or , often involving some form of .
(A) Non-violent direct action, Violent direct action, Indirect action, Boycott
(B) Indirect action, Instrumental action, Non-violent direct action, Information campaign
(C) Indirect action, Violent direct action, Non-violent direct-action Boycott.
(D) Non-violent direct action, Instrumental action, Indirect action, Information campaign
Figure 17: A Business Ethics example.
How many attempts should you make to cannulate a patient before passing the job on to a senior
colleague?
(A) 4 (B) 3 (C) 2 (D) 1
Figure 18: A Clinical Knowledge example.
In a given population, 1 out of every 400 people has a cancer caused by a completely recessive
allele, b. Assuming the population is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, which of the following is
the expected proportion of individuals who carry the b allele but are not expected to develop the
cancer?
(A) 1/400 (B) 19/400 (C) 20/400 (D) 38/400
Figure 19: A College Biology example.
Which of the following statements about the lanthanide elements is NOT true?
(A) The most common oxidation state for the lanthanide elements is +3.
(B) Lanthanide complexes often have high coordination numbers (> 6).
(C) All of the lanthanide elements react with aqueous acid to liberate hydrogen.
(D) The atomic radii of the lanthanide elements increase across the period from La to Lu.
Figure 20: A College Chemistry example.
16
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
Consider a computer design in which multiple processors, each with a private cache memory,
share global memory using a single bus. This bus is the critical system resource. Each processor
can execute one instruction every 500 nanoseconds as long as memory references are satisﬁed
by its local cache. When a cache miss occurs, the processor is delayed for an additional 2,000
nanoseconds. During half of this additional delay, the bus is dedicated to serving the cache miss.
During the other half, the processor cannot continue, but the bus is free to service requests from
other processors. On average, each instruction requires 2 memory references. On average, cache
misses occur on 1 percent of references. What proportion of the capacity of the bus would a single
processor consume, ignoring delays due to competition from other processors?
(A) 1/50 (B) 1/27 (C) 1/25 (D) 2/27
Figure 21: A College Computer Science example.
LetAbe a real 22matrix. Which of the following statements must be true?
I. All of the entries of A2are nonnegative.
II. The determinant of A2is nonnegative.
III. If A has two distinct eigenvalues, then A2has two distinct eigenvalues.
(A) I only (B) II only (C) III only (D) II and III only
Figure 22: A College Mathematics example.
In a genetic test of a newborn, a rare genetic disorder is found that has X-linked recessive
transmission. Which of the following statements is likely true regarding the pedigree of this
disorder?
(A) All descendants on the maternal side will have the disorder.
(B) Females will be approximately twice as affected as males in this family.
(C) All daughters of an affected male will be affected.
(D) There will be equal distribution of males and females affected.
Figure 23: A College Medicine example.
One end of a Nichrome wire of length 2L and cross-sectional area A is attached to an end of
another Nichrome wire of length L and cross- sectional area 2A. If the free end of the longer wire
is at an electric potential of 8.0 volts, and the free end of the shorter wire is at an electric potential
of 1.0 volt, the potential at the junction of the two wires is most nearly equal to
(A) 2.4 V
(B) 3.3 V
(C) 4.5 V
(D) 5.7 V
Figure 24: A College Physics example.
Why is it that anti-virus scanners would not have found an exploitation of Heartbleed?
(A) It’s a vacuous question: Heartbleed only reads outside a buffer, so there is no possible exploit
(B) Anti-virus scanners tend to look for viruses and other malicious
(C) Heartbleed attacks the anti-virus scanner itself
(D) Anti-virus scanners tend to look for viruses and other malicious code, but Heartbleed
exploits steal secrets without injecting any code
Figure 25: A Computer Security example.
A model airplane ﬂies slower when ﬂying into the wind and faster with wind at its back. When
launched at right angles to the wind, a cross wind, its groundspeed compared with ﬂying in still
air is
(A) the same (B) greater (C) less (D) either greater or less depending on wind speed
Figure 26: A Conceptual Physics example.
17
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
Consider the following AR(1) model with the disturbances having zero mean and unit variance
yt= 0:2 + 0:4yt 1+ut
The (unconditional) mean of ywill be given by
(A) 0.2 (B) 0.4 (C) 0.5 (D) 0.33
Figure 27: An Econometrics example.
A point pole has a strength of 410 4weber. The force in newtons on a point pole of
41:510 4weber placed at a distance of 10 cm from it will be
(A) 15 N. (B) 20 N. (C) 7.5 N. (D) 3.75 N.
Figure 28: An Electrical Engineering example.
A total of 30 players will play basketball at a park. There will be exactly 5 players on each team.
Which statement correctly explains how to ﬁnd the number of teams needed?
(A) Add 5 to 30 to ﬁnd 35 teams.
(B) Divide 30 by 5 to ﬁnd 6 teams.
(C) Multiply 30 and 5 to ﬁnd 150 teams.
(D) Subtract 5 from 30 to ﬁnd 25 teams.
Figure 29: An Elementary Mathematics example.
Determine whether the statements are logically equivalent or contradictory. If neither, determine
whether they are consistent or inconsistent.
E(FE)andEF
(A) Logically equivalent
(B) Contradictory
(C) Neither logically equivalent nor contradictory, but consistent
(D) Inconsistent
Figure 30: A Formal Logic example.
As of 2017, how many of the world’s 1-year-old children today have been vaccinated against
some disease?
(A) 80%
(B) 60%
(C) 40%
(D) 20%
Figure 31: A Global Facts example.
Homologous structures are often cited as evidence for the process of natural selection. All of the
following are examples of homologous structures EXCEPT
(A) the wings of a bird and the wings of a bat
(B) the ﬂippers of a whale and the arms of a man
(C) the pectoral ﬁns of a porpoise and the ﬂippers of a seal
(D) the forelegs of an insect and the forelimbs of a dog
Figure 32: A High School Biology example.
From the solubility rules, which of the following is true?
(A) All chlorides, bromides, and iodides are soluble
(B) All sulfates are soluble
(C) All hydroxides are soluble
(D) All ammonium-containing compounds are soluble
Figure 33: A High School Chemistry example.
18
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
A list of numbers has n elements, indexed from 1 to n. The following algorithm is intended to
display the number of elements in the list that have a value greater than 100. The algorithm uses
the variables count and position. Steps 3 and 4 are missing.
Step 1: Set count to 0 and position to 1.
Step 2: If the value of the element at index position is greater
than 100, increase the value of count by 1.
Step 3: (missing step)
Step 4: (missing step)
Step 5: Display the value of count.
Which of the following could be used to replace steps 3 and 4 so that the algorithm works as
intended?
(A) Step 3: Increase the value of position by 1.
Step 4: Repeat steps 2 and 3 until the value of count is greater than 100.
(B) Step 3: Increase the value of position by 1.
Step 4: Repeat steps 2 and 3 until t he value of position is greater than n.
(C) Step 3: Repeat step 2 until the value of count is greater than 100.
Step 4: Increase the value of position by 1.
(D) Step 3: Repeat step 2 until the value of position is greater than n.
Step 4: Increase the value of count by 1.
Figure 34: A High School Computer Science example.
This question refers to the following information.
Albeit the king’s Majesty justly and rightfully is and ought to be the supreme head of the Church
of England, and so is recognized by the clergy of this realm in their convocations, yet nevertheless,
for corroboration and conﬁrmation thereof, and for increase of virtue in Christ’s religion within
this realm of England, and to repress and extirpate all errors, heresies, and other enormities and
abuses heretofore used in the same, be it enacted, by authority of this present Parliament, that the
king, our sovereign lord, his heirs and successors, kings of this realm, shall be taken, accepted,
and reputed the only supreme head in earth of the Church of England, called Anglicans Ecclesia;
and shall have and enjoy, annexed and united to the imperial crown of this realm, as well the
title and style thereof, as all honors, dignities, preeminences, jurisdictions, privileges, authorities,
immunities, proﬁts, and commodities to the said dignity of the supreme head of the same Church
belonging and appertaining; and that our said sovereign lord, his heirs and successors, kings of
this realm, shall have full power and authority from time to time to visit, repress, redress, record,
order, correct, restrain, and amend all such errors, heresies, abuses, offenses, contempts, and
enormities, whatsoever they be, which by any manner of spiritual authority or jurisdiction ought
or may lawfully be reformed, repressed, ordered, redressed, corrected, restrained, or amended,
most to the pleasure of Almighty God, the increase of virtue in Christ’s religion, and for the
conservation of the peace, unity, and tranquility of this realm; any usage, foreign land, foreign
authority, prescription, or any other thing or things to the contrary hereof notwithstanding.
English Parliament, Act of Supremacy, 1534
From the passage, one may infer that the English Parliament wished to argue that the Act of
Supremacy would
(A) give the English king a new position of authority
(B) give the position of head of the Church of England to Henry VIII alone and exclude his heirs
(C) establish Calvinism as the one true theology in England
(D) end various forms of corruption plaguing the Church in England
Figure 35: A High School European History example.
During the third stage of the demographic transition model, which of the following is true?
(A) Birth rates increase and population growth rate is less rapid.
(B) Birth rates decline and population growth rate is less rapid.
(C) Birth rates increase and population growth rate increases.
(D) Birth rates decrease and population growth rate increases.
Figure 36: A High School Geography example.
19
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
Which of the following best states an argument made by James Madison in The Federalist number
10?
(A) Honest politicians can prevent factions from developing.
(B) Factions are more likely to occur in large republics than in small ones.
(C) The negative effects of factionalism can be reduced by a republican government.
(D) Free elections are the people’s best defense against factionalism.
Figure 37: A High School Government and Politics example.
Which of the following is not included in the U.S. GDP?
(A) The U.S. military opens a new base in a foreign country with 1000 U.S. personnel.
(B) Japanese consumers buy thousands of CDs produced in the United States.
(C) An American pop singer performs a sold-out concert in Paris.
(D) A French theatrical production tours dozens of American cities.
Figure 38: A High School Macroeconomics example.
Joe was in charge of lights for a dance. The red light blinks every two seconds, the yellow light
every three seconds, and the blue light every ﬁve seconds. If we include the very beginning and
very end of the dance, how many times during a seven minute dance will all the lights come on at
the same time? (Assume that all three lights blink simultaneously at the very beginning of the
dance.)
(A) 3
(B) 15
(C) 6
(D) 5
Figure 39: A High School Mathematics example.
If the government subsidizes producers in a perfectly competitive market, then
(A) the demand for the product will increase
(B) the demand for the product will decrease
(C) the consumer surplus will increase
(D) the consumer surplus will decrease
Figure 40: A High School Microeconomics example.
A point charge, Q = +1 mC, is ﬁxed at the origin. How much work is required to move a charge,
Q = +8 µC, from the point (0, 4 meters) to the point (3 meters, 0)?
(A) 3.5 J
(B) 6.0 J
(C) 22.5 J
(D) 40 J
Figure 41: A High School Physics example.
While swimming in the ocean, Ivan is frightened by a dark shadow in the water even before he
has the chance to identify what the shadow is. The synaptic connections taking place during this
incident of fright are best described by which of the following?
(A) Messages are sent from the thalamus directly to the amygdala.
(B) Messages are sent from the thalamus to the “what” and “where” pathways.
(C) Messages are sent from the parasympathetic nervous system to the cerebral cortex.
(D) Messages are sent from the frontal lobes to the pituitary gland.
Figure 42: A High School Psychology example.
20
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
Jonathan obtained a score of 80 on a statistics exam, placing him at the 90th percentile. Suppose
ﬁve points are added to everyone’s score. Jonathan’s new score will be at the
(A) 80th percentile.
(B) 85th percentile.
(C) 90th percentile.
(D) 95th percentile.
Figure 43: A High School Statistics example.
This question refers to the following information.
“Society in every state is a blessing, but government even in its best state is but a necessary evil; in
its worst state an intolerable one; for when we suffer, or are exposed to the same miseries by a
government, which we might expect in a country without government, our calamity is heightened
by reﬂecting that we furnish the means by which we suffer. Government, like dress, is the badge
of lost innocence; the palaces of kings are built on the ruins of the bowers of paradise. For were
the impulses of conscience clear, uniform, and irresistibly obeyed, man would need no other
lawgiver; but that not being the case, he ﬁnds it necessary to surrender up a part of his property to
furnish means for the protection of the rest; and this he is induced to do by the same prudence
which in every other case advises him out of two evils to choose the least. Wherefore, security
being the true design and end of government, it unanswerably follows that whatever form thereof
appears most likely to ensure it to us, with the least expense and greatest beneﬁt, is preferable to
all others.”
Thomas Paine, Common Sense, 1776
Which of the following “miseries” alluded to above were most condemned by Anti-Federalists of
the post-Revolutionary era?
(A) Organized response to Bacon’s Rebellion.
(B) Federal response to Shays’s Rebellion.
(C) Federal response to the Whiskey Rebellion.
(D) Federal response to Pontiac’s Rebellion.
Figure 44: A High School US History example.
This question refers to the following information.
“The real grievance of the worker is the insecurity of his existence; he is not sure that he will
always have work, he is not sure that he will always be healthy, and he foresees that he will one
day be old and unﬁt to work. If he falls into poverty, even if only through a prolonged illness, he
is then completely helpless, left to his own devices, and society does not currently recognize any
real obligation towards him beyond the usual help for the poor, even if he has been working all
the time ever so faithfully and diligently. The usual help for the poor, however, leaves a lot to be
desired, especially in large cities, where it is very much worse than in the country.”
Otto von Bismarck, 1884
Otto von Bismarck likely made this speech in reaction to which of the following issues?
(A) Social acceptance of child labor.
(B) Declining life expectancy in Germany.
(C) Criticisms of German trade tariffs.
(D) Negative effects attributed to industrial capitalism.
Figure 45: A High School World History example.
All other things being equal, which of the following persons is more likely to show osteoporosis?
(A) An older Hispanic American woman
(B) An older African American woman
(C) An older Asian American woman
(D) An older Native American woman
Figure 46: A Human Aging example.
21
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
Morning sickness is typically a problem:
(A) during the ﬁrst trimester
(B) during the second trimester
(C) during the third trimester
(D) all through the pregnancy
Figure 47: A Human Sexuality example.
Would a reservation to the deﬁnition of torture in the ICCPR be acceptable in contemporary
practice?
(A) This is an acceptable reservation if the reserving country’s legislation employs a different
deﬁnition
(B) This is an unacceptable reservation because it contravenes the object and purpose of
the ICCPR
(C) This is an unacceptable reservation because the deﬁnition of torture in the ICCPR is consistent
with customary international law
(D) This is an acceptable reservation because under general international law States have the right
to enter reservations to treaties
Figure 48: An International Law example.
Which position does Rawls claim is the least likely to be adopted by the POP (people in the
original position)?
(A) The POP would choose equality above liberty.
(B) The POP would opt for the ‘maximin’ strategy.
(C) The POP would opt for the ‘difference principle.’
(D) The POP would reject the ‘system of natural liberty.’
Figure 49: A Jurisprudence example.
John Stuart Mill: Each person’s happiness is a good to that person, and the general happiness,
therefore, a good to the aggregate of all persons.
(A) Fallacy of Composition
(B) Fallacy of Division
(C) Gambler’s Fallacy
(D) Equivocation
Figure 50: A Logical Fallacies example.
A 6-sided die is rolled 15 times and the results are: side 1 comes up 0 times; side 2: 1 time; side
3: 2 times; side 4: 3 times; side 5: 4 times; side 6: 5 times. Based on these results, what is the
probability of side 3 coming up when using Add-1 Smoothing?
(A) 2/15 (B) 1/7 (C) 3/16 (D) 1/5
Figure 51: A Machine Learning example.
According to Lewin, Lippet and White’s 1939 experiment, which form of leadership produced the
most work from participants?
(A) Laissez-faire
(B) Democratic
(C) Authoritarian
(D) A mix of laissez-faire and democratic
Figure 52: A Management example.
22
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
The single group within society that is most vulnerable to reference group inﬂuence is:
(A) The older consumer who feels somewhat left out of things.
(B) The married women, many of whom feel a need for stability in their lives.
(C) New immigrants who really want to assimilate into their new culture.
(D) Children, who base most of their buying decisions on outside inﬂuences.
Figure 53: A Marketing example.
Which of the following conditions does not show multifactorial inheritance?
(A) Pyloric stenosis
(B) Schizophrenia
(C) Spina biﬁda (neural tube defects)
(D) Marfan syndrome
Figure 54: A Medical Genetics example.
If each of the following meals provides the same number of calories, which meal requires the
most land to produce the food?
(A) Red beans and rice
(B) Steak and a baked potato
(C) Corn tortilla and refried beans
(D) Lentil soup and brown bread
Figure 55: A Miscellaneous example.
In response to Sandel’s “social justice” argument, Kamm argues that
(A) even if we were able to enhance ourselves or others, we would not thereby be obligated to do
so.
(B) there is a difference between (i) choosing that one have a certain trait and (ii) being responsible
for bearing the costs of that choice.
(C) having the option to enhance will lead to fewer instances of people who require the assistance
of others.
(D) all of the above
Figure 56: A Moral Disputes example.
For which of these two scenarios does the main character (who uses I/me/my) do something
clearly morally wrong?
Scenario 1 | I drive very fast when I’m on a racetrack.
Scenario 2 | I drive very fast when I’m in the suburbs.
(A) Wrong, Wrong
(B) Wrong, Not wrong
(C) Not wrong, Wrong
(D) Not wrong, Not wrong
Figure 57: A Moral Scenarios example. The formatting of this task hinders UniﬁedQA performance
substantially.
Which of the following is the most plausible explanation for the protective effect of dietary ﬁbre
against cancer of the colon?
(A) Propionic acid, formed during colonic ﬁbre fermentation inhibits liver fatty acid synthesis
(B) Butyric acid, formed during colonic ﬁbre fermentation stimulates "silencing" of the SLC5A8
tumour suppressor gene
(C) Butyric acid, formed during colonic ﬁbre fermentation stimulates anti-oxidant defences
in the colon
(D) None of these options are correct
Figure 58: A Nutrition example.
23
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
According to Moore’s “ideal utilitarianism,” the right action is the one that brings about the
greatest amount of:
(A) pleasure.
(B) happiness.
(C) good.
(D) virtue.
Figure 59: A Philosophy example.
Researchers now believe that the decline of the Maya was caused chieﬂy by:
(A) a cataclysm of some kind, such as an earthquake, volcano, or tsunami.
(B) ecological degradation resulting from slash-and-burn farming techniques.
(C) endless wars between neighboring Mayan city-states.
(D) practices of interbreeding that led to a steep rise in congenital disorders.
Figure 60: A Prehistory example.
Krete is an unmarried taxpayer with income exclusively from wages. By December 31, year 1,
Krete’s employer has withheld $16,000 in federal income taxes and Krete has made no estimated
tax payments. On April 15, year 2, Krete timely ﬁled for an extension request to ﬁle her individual
tax return, and paid $300 of additional taxes. Krete’s year 1 tax liability was $16,500 when she
timely ﬁled her return on April 30, year 2, and paid the remaining tax liability balance. What
amount would be subject to the penalty for underpayment of estimated taxes?
(A) $0
(B) $500
(C) $1,650
(D) $16,500
Figure 61: A Professional Accounting example.
The night before his bar examination, the examinee’s next-door neighbor was having a party. The
music from the neighbor’s home was so loud that the examinee couldn’t fall asleep. The examinee
called the neighbor and asked her to please keep the noise down. The neighbor then abruptly hung
up. Angered, the examinee went into his closet and got a gun. He went outside and ﬁred a bullet
through the neighbor’s living room window. Not intending to shoot anyone, the examinee ﬁred
his gun at such an angle that the bullet would hit the ceiling. He merely wanted to cause some
damage to the neighbor’s home to relieve his angry rage. The bullet, however, ricocheted off the
ceiling and struck a partygoer in the back, killing him. The jurisdiction makes it a misdemeanor
to discharge a ﬁrearm in public. The examinee will most likely be found guilty for which of the
following crimes in connection to the death of the partygoer?
(A) Murder.
(B) Involuntary manslaughter.
(C) V oluntary manslaughter.
(D) Discharge of a ﬁrearm in public.
Figure 62: A Professional Law example.
24
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
A 63-year-old man is brought to the emergency department because of a 4-day history of in-
creasingly severe left leg pain and swelling of his left calf. He also has a 1-month history of
increasingly severe upper midthoracic back pain. During this time, he has had a 9-kg (20-lb)
weight loss despite no change in appetite. He has no history of major medical illness. His only
medication is ibuprofen. He is 180 cm (5 ft 11 in) tall and weighs 82 kg (180 lb); BMI is 25
kg/m2 . His vital signs are within normal limits. On examination, lower extremity pulses are
palpable bilaterally. The remainder of the physical examination shows no abnormalities. An x-ray
of the thoracic spine shows no abnormalities. A CT scan of the abdomen shows a 3-cm mass in
the body of the pancreas; there are liver metastases and encasement of the superior mesenteric
artery. Ultrasonography of the left lower extremity shows a femoropopliteal venous clot. Which
of the following is the most likely cause of this patient’s symptoms?
(A) Carcinoid syndrome
(B) Hypercoagulability from advanced malignancy
(C) Multiple endocrine neoplasia
(D) Splenic artery aneurysm and embolic disease of the left lower extremity
Figure 63: A Professional Medicine example.
The technique that is most likely to produce an immediate improvement in the behavior of a child
who hits others and rips up schoolbooks is
(A) a combination of reinforcement for appropriate behavior and mild punishment for in-
appropriate behavior
(B) differential positive reinforcement
(C) loss of privileges for misbehaving
(D) shaping
Figure 64: A Professional Psychology example.
You work for a utility company that is building a biomass plant in the community. Your employer
asks you to give a series of community talks about the plant and future operations. You visit the
plant several hours before you are due to give a speech that has been prepared by your immediate
supervisor. During the tour of the plant, you discover several claims in the speech are not true.
What do you do?
(A) Write and deliver a new speech that you know is entirely correct.
(B) Cancel all speeches until you and your supervisor can get the information straight.
(C) Deliver the speech as prepared and discuss the inaccuracies with your supervisor afterward.
(D) Address the inaccuracies with your supervisor immediately and make the necessary
corrections before giving the speech.
Figure 65: A Public Relations example.
25
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
The Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) prohibited the possession or deployment of chemical
weapons; however it failed to implement stipulations that would require signatories to declare their
existing stocks of chemical weapons, to identify facilities that were once involved in chemical
production, or to announce when their existing stocks would be destroyed.
(A) The Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) prohibited the possession or deployment of
chemical weapons; however it failed to implement stipulations that would require signatories to
declare their existing stocks of chemical weapons, to identify facilities that were once involved in
chemical production, or to announce when their existing stocks would be destroyed.
(B) The CWC made some important developments regarding the use and possession of chemical
weapons and the destruction of existing stockpiles. However, the treaty failed to establish an
independent body empowered with the capacity to check treaty compliance. Lack of supra-state
authority has undermined the ability to enforce those developments. Given the anarchical nature
of international society it may be in the national security interest to retain stocks.
(C) Chemical weapons continue to exert a determining inﬂuence on international society. As early
as the 1970s military strategists were convinced of the deterrence effects chemical weapons could
have, comparable to the second strike survival logic of nuclear deterrence. The preferences of
strategists resulted in continued manufacture and stockpiling of weapons creating an international
crisis of stability.
(D) While the CWC has been ratiﬁed by the majority of international society, some nations
with a large chemical capability at their disposal have yet to enter into the treaty. However,
to some analysts the destructive military potential would be limited, having a moderate
effect on a well-equipped army in conventional warfare. Chemical arsenal essentially falls
under the category of the "poor mans" weaponry, being simplistic and inexpensive whilst
having limited military utility. However, the concern remains of the prospective impact a
terrorist chemical attack could have on civilian populations.
Figure 66: A Security Studies example.
Which of the following statements most closely corresponds with differential association theory?
(A) If all of your friends jumped off a bridge, I suppose you would too.
(B) You should be proud to be a part of this organization.
(C) If the door is closed, try the window.
(D) Once a thief, always a thief.
Figure 67: A Sociology example.
Why did Congress oppose Wilson’s proposal for the League of Nations?
(A) It feared the League would encourage Soviet inﬂuence in the US
(B) It feared the League would be anti-democratic
(C) It feared the League would commit the US to an international alliance
(D) Both a and b
Figure 68: A US Foreign Policy example.
An observational study in diabetics assesses the role of an increased plasma ﬁbrinogen level on
the risk of cardiac events. 130 diabetic patients are followed for 5 years to assess the development
of acute coronary syndrome. In the group of 60 patients with a normal baseline plasma ﬁbrinogen
level, 20 develop acute coronary syndrome and 40 do not. In the group of 70 patients with a high
baseline plasma ﬁbrinogen level, 40 develop acute coronary syndrome and 30 do not. Which of
the following is the best estimate of relative risk in patients with a high baseline plasma ﬁbrinogen
level compared to patients with a normal baseline plasma ﬁbrinogen level?
(A) (40/30)/(20/40)
(B) (40*40)/(20*30)
(C) (40*70)/(20*60)
(D) (40/70)/(20/60)
Figure 69: A Virology example.
26
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
The Great Cloud Sutra prophesied the imminent arrival of which person?
(A) Maitreya (Milo)
(B) The Buddha
(C) Zhou Dunyi
(D) Wang Yangming
Figure 70: A World Religions example.
27