Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 4846–4853,
November 16–20, 2020. c2020 Association for Computational Linguistics4846Utility is in the Eye of the User: A Critique of NLP Leaderboards
Kawin Ethayarajh
Stanford University
kawin@stanford.eduDan Jurafsky
Stanford University
jurafsky@stanford.edu
Abstract
Benchmarks such as GLUE have helped drive
advances in NLP by incentivizing the creation
of more accurate models. While this leader-
board paradigm has been remarkably success-
ful, a historical focus on performance-based
evaluation has been at the expense of other
qualities that the NLP community values in
models, such as compactness, fairness, and en-
ergy efﬁciency. In this opinion paper, we study
the divergence between what is incentivized
by leaderboards and what is useful in prac-
tice through the lens of microeconomic the-
ory. We frame both the leaderboard and NLP
practitioners as consumers and the beneﬁt they
get from a model as its utility to them. With
this framing, we formalize how leaderboards
– in their current form – can be poor proxies
for the NLP community at large. For exam-
ple, a highly inefﬁcient model would provide
less utility to practitioners but not to a leader-
board, since it is a cost that only the former
must bear. To allow practitioners to better es-
timate a model’s utility to them, we advocate
for more transparency on leaderboards, such
as the reporting of statistics that are of practi-
cal concern (e.g., model size, energy efﬁciency,
and inference latency).
1 Introduction
The past few years have seen signiﬁcant progress
on a variety of NLP tasks, from question answer-
ing to machine translation. These advances have
been driven in part by benchmarks such as GLUE
(Wang et al., 2018), whose leaderboards rank mod-
els by how well they perform on these diverse tasks.
Performance-based evaluation on a shared task is
not a recent idea either; this sort of shared chal-
lenge has been an important driver of progress since
MUC (Sundheim, 1995). While this paradigm has
been successful at driving the creation of more ac-
curate models, the historical focus on performance-
based evaluation has been at the expense of otherattributes valued by the NLP community, such as
fairness and energy efﬁciency (Bender and Fried-
man, 2018; Strubell et al., 2019). For example, a
highly inefﬁcient model would have limited use in
practical applications, but this would not preclude
it from reaching the top of most leaderboards. Sim-
ilarly, models can reach the top while containing
racial and gender biases – and indeed, some have
(Bordia and Bowman, 2019; Manzini et al., 2019;
Rudinger et al., 2018; Blodgett et al., 2020).
Microeconomics provides a useful lens through
which to study the divergence between what is in-
centivized by leaderboards and what is valued by
practitioners. We can frame both the leaderboard
and NLP practitioners as consumers of models and
the beneﬁt they receive from a model as its utility
to them. Although leaderboards are inanimate, this
framing allows us to make an apples-to-apples com-
parison: if the priorities of leaderboards and practi-
tioners are perfectly aligned, their utility functions
should be identical; the less aligned they are, the
greater the differences. For example, the utility of
both groups is monotonic non-decreasing in accu-
racy, so a more accurate model is no less preferable
to a less accurate one, holding all else constant.
However, while the utility of practitioners is also
sensitive to the size and efﬁciency of a model, the
utility of leaderboards is not. By studying such
differences, we formalize some of the limitations
in contemporary leaderboard design:
1.Non-Smooth Utility : For a leaderboard, an
improvement in model accuracy on a given
task only increases utility when it also in-
creases rank. For practitioners, any improve-
ment in accuracy can increase utility.
2.Prediction Cost : Leaderboards treat the cost
of making predictions (e.g., model size, en-
ergy efﬁciency, latency) as being zero, which
does not hold in practice.
48473.Robustness : Practitioners receive higher util-
ity from a model that is more robust to adver-
sarial perturbations, generalizes better to out-
of-distribution data, and that is equally fair
to all demographics. However, these beneﬁts
would leave leaderboard utility unchanged.
We contextualize these limitations with examples
from the ML fairness (Barocas et al., 2017; Hardt
et al., 2016), Green AI (Strubell et al., 2019;
Schwartz et al., 2019), and robustness literature
(Jia and Liang, 2017). These three limitations are
not comprehensive – other problems can also arise,
which we leave to be discussed in future work.
What changes can we make to leaderboards so
that their utility functions better reﬂect that of the
NLP community at large? Given that each practi-
tioner has their own preferences, there is no way to
rank models so that everyone is satisﬁed. Instead,
we suggest that leaderboards demand transparency,
requiring the reporting of statistics that are of prac-
tical concern (e.g., model size, energy efﬁciency).
This is akin to the use of data statements for mit-
igating bias in NLP systems (Gebru et al., 2018;
Mitchell et al., 2019; Bender and Friedman, 2018).
This way, practitioners can determine the utility
they receive from a given model with relatively lit-
tle effort. Dodge et al. (2019) have suggested that
model creators take it upon themselves to report
these statistics, but without leaderboards requiring
it, there is little incentive to do so.
2 Utility Functions
In economics, the utility of a good denotes the bene-
ﬁt that a consumer receives from it (Mankiw, 2020).
We speciﬁcally discuss the theory of cardinal util-
ity, in which the amount of the good consumed
can be mapped to a numerical value that quantiﬁes
its utility in utils (Mankiw, 2020). For example, a
consumer might assign a value of 10 utils to two
apples and 8 utils to one orange; we can infer both
the direction and magnitude of the preference.
Leaderboards We use the term leaderboard to
refer to any ranking of models or systems using
performance-based evaluation on a shared bench-
mark. In NLP, this includes both longstanding
benchmarks such as GLUE (Wang et al., 2018)
and one-off challenges such as the annual SemEval
STS tasks (Agirre et al., 2013, 2014, 2015). This
is not a recent idea either; this paradigm has been
a driver of progress since MUC (Sundheim, 1995).All we assume is that all models are evaluated on
the same held-out test data.
In our framework, leaderboards are consumers
whose utility is solely derived from the rank of a
model. Framing leaderboards as consumers is un-
orthodox, given that they are inanimate – in fact, it
might seem more intuitive to say that leaderboards
are another kind of product that is also consumed
by practitioners. While that perspective is valid,
what we ultimately care about is how good of a
proxy leaderboards are for practitioner preferences.
Framing both leaderboards and practitioners as con-
sumers permits an apples-to-apples comparison us-
ing their utility functions. If a leaderboard were
only thought of as a product, it would not have such
a function, precluding such a comparison.
Unlike most kinds of consumers, a leaderboard
is a consumer whose preferences are perfectly re-
vealed through its rankings: the state-of-the-art
(SOTA) model is preferred to all others, the second
ranking model is preferred to all those below it,
and so on. Put more formally, leaderboard utility is
monotonic non-decreasing in rank. Still, because
each consumer is unique, we cannot know the exact
shape of a leaderboard utility function – only that
it possesses this monotonicity.
NLP Practitioners Practitioners are also con-
sumers, but they derive utility from multiple prop-
erties of the model being consumed (e.g., accuracy,
energy efﬁciency, latency). Each input into their
utility function is some desideratum, but since each
practitioner applies the model differently, the func-
tions can be different. For example, someone may
assign higher utility to BERT-Large (Devlin et al.,
2019) and its 95% accuracy on some task, while
another may assign higher utility to the smaller
BERT-Base and its 90% accuracy. As with leader-
boards, although the exact shapes of practitioner
utility functions are unknown, we can infer that
they are monotonic non-decreasing in each desider-
atum. For example, more compact models are more
desirable, so increasing compactness while holding
all else constant will never decrease utility.
3 Utilitarian Critiques
Our criticisms apply regardless of the shape taken
by practitioner utility functions – a necessity, given
that the exact shapes are unknown. However, not
every criticism applies to every leaderboard. Stere-
oSet (Nadeem et al., 2020) is a leaderboard that
ranks language models by how unbiased they are,
4848
Figure 1: A contrast of possible utility functions for
leaderboards and NLP practitioners. Note that for
leaderboards, utility is not smooth with respect to ac-
curacy; there is only an increase if the model is SOTA
/ #2 / #3 on the leaderboard. For practitioners, utility
is smooth – any improvement in accuracy yields more
utility. The utility functions can take on a variety of
shapes but are always monotonic non-decreasing.
so fairness-related criticisms would not apply as
much to StereoSet. Similarly, the SNLI leader-
board (Bowman et al., 2015) reports the model size
– a cost of making predictions – even if it does
not factor this cost into the model ranking. Still,
most of our criticisms apply to most leaderboards
in NLP, and we provide examples of well-known
leaderboards that embody each limitation.
3.1 Non-Smoothness of Utility
Leaderboards only gain utility from an increase in
accuracy when it improves the model’s rank. This
is because, by deﬁnition, the leaderboard’s prefer-
ences are perfectly revealed through its ranking –
there is no model that can be preferred to another
while having a lower rank. Since an increase in
accuracy does not necessarily trigger an increase
in rank, it does not necessarily trigger an increase
in leaderboard utility either.
Put another way, the utility of leaderboards takes
the form of a step function, meaning that it is not
smooth with respect to accuracy. In contrast, the
utility of practitioners is smooth with respect to
accuracy. Holding all else constant, an increase in
accuracy will yield some increase in utility, how-
ever small. Why this difference? The utility of
leaderboards is a function of rank – it is only in-
directly related to accuracy. On the other hand,
the utility of practitioners is a direct function of
accuracy, among other desiderata. To illustrate this
difference, we contrast possible practitioner andleaderboard utility functions in Figure 1.
This difference means that practitioners who are
content with a less-than-SOTA model – as long
as it is lightweight, perhaps – are under-served,
while practitioners who want competitive-with-
SOTA models are over-served. For example, on
a given task, say that an n-gram baseline obtains
an accuracy of 78%, an LSTM baseline obtains
81%, and a BERT-based SOTA obtains 92%. The
leaderboard does not incentivize the creation of
lightweight models that are 85% accurate, and
as a result, few such models will be created. This is
indeed the case with the SNLI leaderboard (Bow-
man et al., 2015), where most submitted models
are highly-parameterized and over 85% accurate.
This incentive structure leaves those looking for
a lightweight model with limited options. This
lack of smaller, more energy-efﬁcient models has
been an impediment to the adoption of Green AI
(Schwartz et al., 2019; Strubell et al., 2019). Al-
though there are increasingly more lightweight and
faster-to-train models – such as ELECTRA, on
which accuracy and training time can be easily
traded off (Clark et al., 2020) – their creation was
not incentivized by a leaderboard, despite there
being a demand for such models in the NLP com-
munity. A similar problem exists with incentivizing
the creation of fair models, though the introduction
of leaderboards such as StereoSet (Nadeem et al.,
2020) are helping bridge this divide.
3.2 Prediction Cost
Leaderboards of NLP benchmarks rank models by
taking the average accuracy, F1 score, or exact
match rate (Wang et al., 2018, 2019; McCann et al.,
2018). In other words, they rank models purely by
the value of their predictions; no consideration is
given to the cost of making those predictions. We
deﬁne ‘cost’ here chieﬂy as model size, energy-
efﬁciency, training time, and inference latency –
essentially any sacriﬁce that needs to be made in
order to use the model. In reality, no model is
costless, yet leaderboards are cost-ignorant.
This means that a SOTA model can simultane-
ously provide high utility to a leaderboard and
zero utility to a practitioner, by virtue of being
too impractical to use. For some time, this was true
of the 175 billion parameter GPT-3 (Brown et al.,
2020), which achieved SOTA on several few-shot
tasks, but whose sheer size precludes it from be-
ing fully reproduced by researchers. Even today,
4849practitioners can only use GPT-3 through an API,
access to which is restricted. The cost-ignorance
of leaderboards disproportionately affects practi-
tioners with fewer resources (e.g., independent re-
searchers) (Rogers, 2019), since the resource de-
mands would dwarf any utility from the model.
It should be noted that this limitation of leader-
boards has not precluded the creation of cheaper
models, given the real-world beneﬁt of lower costs.
For example, ELECTRA (Clark et al., 2020) can
be trained up to several hundred times faster than
traditional BERT-based models while performing
comparably on GLUE. Similarly, DistilBERT is a
distilled variant of BERT that is 40% smaller and
60% faster while retaining 97% of the language
understanding (Sanh et al., 2019). There are many
others like it as well (Zadeh and Moshovos, 2020;
Hou et al., 2020; Mao et al., 2020). More efﬁciency
and fewer parameters translate to lower costs.
Our point is not that there is no incentive at all
to build cheaper models, but rather that this incen-
tive is not baked into leaderboards, which are an
important artefact of the NLP community. Because
lower prediction costs improve practitioner utility,
practitioners build them despite the lack of incen-
tive from leaderboards. If lower prediction costs
also improved leaderboard utility, then there would
be more interest in creating them (Linzen, 2020;
Rogers, 2019; Dodge et al., 2019). At the very least,
making prediction costs publicly available would
allow users to better estimate the utility that they
will get from a model, given that the leaderboard’s
cost-ignorant ranking may be a poor proxy for their
preferences.
3.3 Robustness
Leaderboard utility only depends on model rank,
which in turn only depends on the model’s per-
formance on the test data. A typical leaderboard
would gain no additional utility from a model that
was robust to adversarial examples, generalized
well to out-of-distribution data (Linzen, 2020), or
was fair in a Rawlsian sense (i.e., by maximizing
the welfare of the worst-off group) (Rawls, 2001;
Hashimoto et al., 2018). In contrast, these are all
attributes that NLP practitioners care about, par-
ticularly those who deploy systems in real-world
applications. In fact, the literature on the lack of
robustness in many SOTA models is extensive (Jia
and Liang, 2017; Zhang et al., 2020).
There are many examples of state-of-the-art NLPmodels that were found to be brittle or biased. The
question-answering dataset SQuAD 2.0 was cre-
ated in response to the observation that existing sys-
tems could not reliably demur when presented with
an unanswerable question (Rajpurkar et al., 2016,
2018). The perplexity of language models rises
when given out-of-domain text (Oren et al., 2019).
Many types of bias have also been found in NLP
systems, with models performing better on gender-
stereotypical inputs (Rudinger et al., 2018; Etha-
yarajh, 2020) and racial stereotypes being captured
in embedding space (Manzini et al., 2019; Etha-
yarajh et al., 2019a,b; Ethayarajh, 2019). Moreover,
repeated resubmissions allow for a model’s hyper-
parameters to be tuned to maximize performance,
even on a private test set (Hardt, 2017).
Note that leaderboards do not necessarily incen-
tivize the creation of brittle and biased models;
rather, because leaderboard utility is so parochial,
these unintended consequences are relatively com-
mon. Some recent work has addressed the prob-
lem of brittleness by offering certiﬁcates of perfor-
mance against adversarial examples (Raghunathan
et al., 2018a,b; Jia et al., 2019). To tackle gender
bias, the SuperGLUE leaderboard considers accu-
racy on the WinoBias task (Wang et al., 2019; Zhao
et al., 2018). Other work has proposed changes
to prevent over-ﬁtting via multiple resubmissions
(Hardt and Blum, 2015; Hardt, 2017) while some
have argued that this issue is overblown, given
that question-answering systems submitted to the
SQuAD leaderboard do not over-ﬁt to the original
test set (Miller et al., 2020). A novel approach even
proposes using a dynamic benchmark instead of a
static one, creating a moving target that is harder
for models to overﬁt to (Nie et al., 2019).
4 The Future of Leaderboards
4.1 A Leaderboard for Every User
Given that each practitioner has their own utility
function, models cannot be ranked in a way that
satisﬁes everyone. Drawing inspiration from data
statements (Bender and Friedman, 2018; Mitchell
et al., 2019; Gebru et al., 2018), we instead recom-
mend that leaderboards demand transparency and
require the reporting of metrics that are relevant to
practitioners, such as training time, model size, in-
ference latency, and energy efﬁciency. Dodge et al.
(2019) have suggested that model creators submit
these statistics of their own accord, but without
leaderboards requiring it, there would be no explicit
4850incentive to do so. Although NLP workshops and
conferences could also require this, their purview
is limited: (1) models are often submitted to leader-
boards before conferences; (2) leaderboards make
these statistics easily accessible in one place.
Giving practitioners easy access to these statis-
tics would permit them to estimate each model’s
utility to them and then re-rank accordingly. This
could be made even easier by offering an interface
that allows the user to change the weighting on
each metric and then using the chosen weights to
dynamically re-rank the models. In effect, every
user would have their own leaderboard. Ideally,
users would even have the option of ﬁltering out
models that do not meet their criteria (e.g., those
above a certain parameter count).
This would have beneﬁcial second-order effects
as well. For example, reporting the costs of making
predictions would put large institutions and poorly-
resourced model creators on more equal footing
(Rogers, 2019). This might motivate the creation
of simpler methods whose ease-of-use makes up for
weaker performance, such as weighted-average sen-
tence embeddings (Arora et al., 2019; Ethayarajh,
2018). Even if a poorly-resourced creator could
not afford to train the SOTA model du jour , they
could at least compete on the basis of efﬁciency or
create a minimally viable system that meets some
desired threshold (Dodge et al., 2019; Dorr, 2011).
Reporting the performance on the worst-off group,
in the spirit of Rawlsian fairness (Rawls, 2001;
Hashimoto et al., 2018), would also incentivize
creators to improve worst-case performance.
4.2 A Leaderboard for Every Type of User
While each practitioner may have their own utility
function, groups of practitioners – characterized
by a shared goal – can be modelled with a single
function. For example, programmers working on
low latency applications (e.g., multiplayer games)
will place more value on latency than others. In
contrast, researchers submitting their work to a con-
ference may place more value on accuracy, given
that a potential reviewer may reject a model that is
not SOTA (Rogers, 2020). Although there is vari-
ance within any group, this approach is tractable
when there are many points of consensus.
How might we go about creating a leaderboard
for a speciﬁc type of user? As proposed in the pre-
vious subsection, one option is to offer an interface
that allows the user to change the utility functiondynamically. If we wanted to create a static leader-
board for a group of users, however, we would
need to estimate their utility function. This could
be done explicitly or implicitly. The explicit way
would be to ask questions that use the dollar value
as a proxy for cardinal utility: e.g., Given a 100M
parameter sentiment classiﬁer with 200ms latency,
how much would you pay per 1000 API calls? One
could also try to estimate the derivative of the util-
ity function with questions such as: How much
would you pay to improve the latency from 200ms
to 100ms, holding all else constant? When there
are multiple metrics to consider, some assumptions
would be needed to tractably estimate the function.
The implicit alternative to estimating this func-
tion is to record which models practitioners actually
use and then ﬁt a utility function that maximizes
the utility of the observed models. This approach
is rooted in revealed preference theory (Samuelson,
1948) – we assume that what practitioners use re-
veals their latent preferences. Exploiting revealed
preferences may be difﬁcult in practice, however,
given that usage statistics for models are not often
made public and the decision to use a model might
not be made with complete information.
5 Conclusion
In this work, we offered several criticisms of leader-
board design in NLP. While it has helped create
more accurate models, we argued that this has been
at the expense of fairness, efﬁciency, and robust-
ness, among other desiderata. We were not the ﬁrst
to criticize NLP leaderboards (Rogers, 2019; Crane,
2018; Linzen, 2020), but we were the ﬁrst to do
so under a framework of utility , which we used to
study the divergence between what is incentivized
by leaderboards and what is valued by practitioners.
Given the diversity of NLP practitioners, there is
no one-size-ﬁts-all solution; rather, leaderboards
should demand transparency, requiring the report-
ing of statistics that may be of practical concern.
Equipped with these statistics, each user could then
estimate the utility that each model provides to
them and then re-rank accordingly, effectively cre-
ating a custom leaderboard for everyone.
Acknowledgments
Many thanks to Eugenia Rho, Dallas Card, Robin
Jia, Urvashi Khandelwal, Nelson Liu, and Sidd
Karamcheti for feedback. KE is supported by an
NSERC PGS-D.
4851References
Eneko Agirre, Carmen Banea, Claire Cardie, Daniel M
Cer, Mona T Diab, Aitor Gonzalez-Agirre, Weiwei
Guo, Inigo Lopez-Gazpio, Montse Maritxalar, Rada
Mihalcea, et al. 2015. Semeval-2015 task 2: Seman-
tic textual similarity, English, Spanish and pilot on
interpretability. In Proceedings SemEval@ NAACL-
HLT, pages 252–263.
Eneko Agirre, Carmen Banea, Claire Cardie, Daniel M
Cer, Mona T Diab, Aitor Gonzalez-Agirre, Weiwei
Guo, Rada Mihalcea, German Rigau, and Janyce
Wiebe. 2014. Semeval-2014 task 10: Multilin-
gual semantic textual similarity. In Proceedings Se-
mEval@ COLING , pages 81–91.
Eneko Agirre, Daniel Cer, Mona Diab, Aitor Gonzalez-
Agirre, and Weiwei Guo. 2013. Sem 2013 shared
task: Semantic textual similarity, including a pilot
on typed-similarity. In SEM 2013: The Second Joint
Conference on Lexical and Computational Seman-
tics. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Sanjeev Arora, Yingyu Liang, and Tengyu Ma. 2019.
A simple but tough-to-beat baseline for sentence em-
beddings. In 5th International Conference on Learn-
ing Representations, ICLR 2017 .
Solon Barocas, Moritz Hardt, and Arvind Narayanan.
2017. Fairness in machine learning. NIPS Tutorial .
Emily M Bender and Batya Friedman. 2018. Data
statements for natural language processing: Toward
mitigating system bias and enabling better science.
Transactions of the Association for Computational
Linguistics , 6:587–604.
Su Lin Blodgett, Solon Barocas, Hal Daum ´e III, and
Hanna Wallach. 2020. Language (technology) is
power: A critical survey of ”bias” in nlp.
Shikha Bordia and Samuel Bowman. 2019. Identify-
ing and reducing gender bias in word-level language
models. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of
the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Student Research Work-
shop , pages 7–15.
Samuel Bowman, Gabor Angeli, Christopher Potts, and
Christopher D Manning. 2015. A large annotated
corpus for learning natural language inference. In
Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages
632–642.
Tom B. Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie
Subbiah, Jared Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind
Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-V oss,
Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, Rewon Child,
Aditya Ramesh, Daniel M. Ziegler, Jeffrey Wu,
Clemens Winter, Christopher Hesse, Mark Chen,
Eric Sigler, Mateusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin
Chess, Jack Clark, Christopher Berner, Sam Mc-
Candlish, Alec Radford, Ilya Sutskever, and DarioAmodei. 2020. Language models are few-shot learn-
ers.
Kevin Clark, Minh-Thang Luong, Quoc V Le, and
Christopher D Manning. 2020. Electra: Pre-training
text encoders as discriminators rather than genera-
tors. arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.10555 .
Matt Crane. 2018. Questionable Answers in Question
Answering Research: Reproducibility and Variabil-
ity of Published Results. Transactions of the Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics , 6:241–252.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. 2019. Bert: Pre-training of
deep bidirectional transformers for language under-
standing. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of
the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Tech-
nologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers) , pages
4171–4186.
Jesse Dodge, Suchin Gururangan, Dallas Card, Roy
Schwartz, and Noah A Smith. 2019. Show your
work: Improved reporting of experimental results.
InProceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing and the
9th International Joint Conference on Natural Lan-
guage Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP) , pages 2185–
2194.
Bonnie Dorr. 2011. Part 5: Machine Translation Eval-
uation . Springer Science & Business Media.
Kawin Ethayarajh. 2018. Unsupervised random walk
sentence embeddings: A strong but simple baseline.
InProceedings of The Third Workshop on Represen-
tation Learning for NLP , pages 91–100.
Kawin Ethayarajh. 2019. Rotate king to get queen:
Word relationships as orthogonal transformations in
embedding space. In Proceedings of the 2019 Con-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing and the 9th International Joint Confer-
ence on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-
IJCNLP) , pages 3494–3499.
Kawin Ethayarajh. 2020. Is your classiﬁer actually
biased? measuring fairness under uncertainty with
bernstein bounds. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.12332 .
Kawin Ethayarajh, David Duvenaud, and Graeme Hirst.
2019a. Towards understanding linear word analo-
gies. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting
of the Association for Computational Linguistics ,
pages 3253–3262, Florence, Italy. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Kawin Ethayarajh, David Duvenaud, and Graeme Hirst.
2019b. Understanding undesirable word embedding
associations. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics , pages 1696–1705.
4852Timnit Gebru, Jamie Morgenstern, Briana Vecchione,
Jennifer Wortman Vaughan, Hanna Wallach, Hal
Daume ´e III, and Kate Crawford. 2018. Datasheets
for datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.09010 .
Moritz Hardt. 2017. Climbing a shaky ladder:
Better adaptive risk estimation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1706.02733 .
Moritz Hardt and Avrim Blum. 2015. The ladder: a
reliable leaderboard for machine learning competi-
tions. In Proceedings of the 32nd International Con-
ference on International Conference on Machine
Learning-Volume 37 , pages 1006–1014.
Moritz Hardt, Eric Price, and Nati Srebro. 2016. Equal-
ity of opportunity in supervised learning. In Ad-
vances in neural information processing systems ,
pages 3315–3323.
Tatsunori Hashimoto, Megha Srivastava, Hongseok
Namkoong, and Percy Liang. 2018. Fairness with-
out demographics in repeated loss minimization.
InInternational Conference on Machine Learning ,
pages 1929–1938.
Lu Hou, Lifeng Shang, Xin Jiang, and Qun Liu. 2020.
Dynabert: Dynamic bert with adaptive width and
depth. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.04037 .
Robin Jia and Percy Liang. 2017. Adversarial exam-
ples for evaluating reading comprehension systems.
InProceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empiri-
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages
2021–2031.
Robin Jia, Aditi Raghunathan, Kerem G ¨oksel, and
Percy Liang. 2019. Certiﬁed robustness to adver-
sarial word substitutions. In Proceedings of the
2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu-
ral Language Processing and the 9th International
Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP-IJCNLP) , pages 4120–4133.
Tal Linzen. 2020. How can we accelerate progress to-
wards human-like linguistic generalization? In Pro-
ceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics , pages 5210–
5217, Online. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
N Gregory Mankiw. 2020. Principles of economics .
Cengage Learning.
Thomas Manzini, Lim Yao Chong, Alan W Black, and
Yulia Tsvetkov. 2019. Black is to criminal as cau-
casian is to police: Detecting and removing multi-
class bias in word embeddings. In Proceedings of
the 2019 Conference of the North American Chap-
ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long
and Short Papers) , pages 615–621.
Yihuan Mao, Yujing Wang, Chufan Wu, Chen Zhang,
Yang Wang, Yaming Yang, Quanlu Zhang, Yunhai
Tong, and Jing Bai. 2020. Ladabert: Lightweightadaptation of bert through hybrid model compres-
sion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.04124 .
Bryan McCann, Nitish Shirish Keskar, Caiming Xiong,
and Richard Socher. 2018. The natural language de-
cathlon: Multitask learning as question answering.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.08730 .
John Miller, Karl Krauth, Benjamin Recht, and Ludwig
Schmidt. 2020. The effect of natural distribution
shift on question answering models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2004.14444 .
Margaret Mitchell, Simone Wu, Andrew Zaldivar,
Parker Barnes, Lucy Vasserman, Ben Hutchinson,
Elena Spitzer, Inioluwa Deborah Raji, and Timnit
Gebru. 2019. Model cards for model reporting. In
Proceedings of the conference on fairness, account-
ability, and transparency , pages 220–229.
Moin Nadeem, Anna Bethke, and Siva Reddy.
2020. Stereoset: Measuring stereotypical bias
in pretrained language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2004.09456 .
Yixin Nie, Adina Williams, Emily Dinan, Mohit
Bansal, Jason Weston, and Douwe Kiela. 2019. Ad-
versarial nli: A new benchmark for natural language
understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.14599 .
Yonatan Oren, Shiori Sagawa, Tatsunori Hashimoto,
and Percy Liang. 2019. Distributionally robust lan-
guage modeling. In Proceedings of the 2019 Con-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing and the 9th International Joint Confer-
ence on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-
IJCNLP) , pages 4218–4228.
Aditi Raghunathan, Jacob Steinhardt, and Percy Liang.
2018a. Certiﬁed defenses against adversarial exam-
ples. arXiv preprint arXiv:1801.09344 .
Aditi Raghunathan, Jacob Steinhardt, and Percy S
Liang. 2018b. Semideﬁnite relaxations for certify-
ing robustness to adversarial examples. In Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems , pages
10877–10887.
Pranav Rajpurkar, Robin Jia, and Percy Liang. 2018.
Know what you don’t know: Unanswerable ques-
tions for squad. In Proceedings of the 56th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics (Volume 2: Short Papers) , pages 784–789.
Pranav Rajpurkar, Jian Zhang, Konstantin Lopyrev, and
Percy Liang. 2016. Squad: 100,000+ questions for
machine comprehension of text. In Proceedings of
the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu-
ral Language Processing , pages 2383–2392.
John Rawls. 2001. Justice as fairness: A restatement .
Harvard University Press.
Anna Rogers. 2019. How the transformers broke NLP
leaderboards. https://hackingsemantics.
xyz/2019/leaderboards/ . Accessed: 2020-05-
20.
4853Anna Rogers. 2020. Peer review in NLP: reject-if-
not-SOTA. https://hackingsemantics.xyz/
2020/reviewing-models/ . Accessed: 2020-05-
20.
Rachel Rudinger, Jason Naradowsky, Brian Leonard,
and Benjamin Van Durme. 2018. Gender bias in
coreference resolution. In Proceedings of the 2018
Conference of the North American Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: Human
Language Technologies, Volume 2 (Short Papers) ,
pages 8–14.
Paul A Samuelson. 1948. Consumption theory in terms
of revealed preference. Economica , 15(60):243–
253.
Victor Sanh, Lysandre Debut, Julien Chaumond, and
Thomas Wolf. 2019. Distilbert, a distilled version
of bert: smaller, faster, cheaper and lighter. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1910.01108 .
Roy Schwartz, Jesse Dodge, Noah A. Smith, and Oren
Etzioni. 2019. Green AI. CoRR , abs/1907.10597.
Emma Strubell, Ananya Ganesh, and Andrew McCal-
lum. 2019. Energy and policy considerations for
deep learning in nlp. In Proceedings of the 57th An-
nual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics , pages 3645–3650.
Beth Sundheim. 1995. Overview of results of the
MUC-6 evaluation. In MUC-6 , pages 13–31,
Columbia, MD.
Alex Wang, Yada Pruksachatkun, Nikita Nangia,
Amanpreet Singh, Julian Michael, Felix Hill, Omer
Levy, and Samuel Bowman. 2019. Superglue: A
stickier benchmark for general-purpose language un-
derstanding systems. In Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems , pages 3261–3275.
Alex Wang, Amanpreet Singh, Julian Michael, Felix
Hill, Omer Levy, and Samuel R Bowman. 2018.
Glue: A multi-task benchmark and analysis platform
for natural language understanding. EMNLP 2018 ,
page 353.
Ali Hadi Zadeh and Andreas Moshovos. 2020. Gobo:
Quantizing attention-based nlp models for low la-
tency and energy efﬁcient inference. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2005.03842 .
Wei Emma Zhang, Quan Z Sheng, Ahoud Alhazmi,
and Chenliang Li. 2020. Adversarial attacks on
deep-learning models in natural language process-
ing: A survey. ACM Transactions on Intelligent Sys-
tems and Technology (TIST) , 11(3):1–41.
Jieyu Zhao, Tianlu Wang, Mark Yatskar, Vicente Or-
donez, and Kai-Wei Chang. 2018. Gender bias in
coreference resolution: Evaluation and debiasing
methods. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of
the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Tech-
nologies, Volume 2 (Short Papers) , pages 15–20.