Data Contamination Through the Lens of Time
Manley Roberts∗1, Himanshu Thakur1, Christine Herlihy2, Colin White1,3, Samuel Dooley1
1Abacus.AI,2University of Maryland,3Caltech
Abstract
Recent claims about the impressive abilities of large language models (LLMs) are often
supported by evaluating publicly available benchmarks. Since LLMs train on wide swaths of the
internet, this practice raises concerns of data contamination, i.e., evaluating on examples that
are explicitly or implicitly included in the training data. Data contamination remains notoriously
challenging to measure and mitigate, even with partial attempts like controlled experimentation
of training data, canary strings, or embedding similarities. In this work, we conduct the first
thorough longitudinal analysis of data contamination in LLMs by using the natural experiment
of training cutoffs in GPT models to look at benchmarks released over time. Specifically, we
consider two code/mathematical problem-solving datasets, Codeforces and Project Euler, and
find statistically significant trends among LLM pass rate vs. GitHub popularity and release date
that provide strong evidence of contamination. By open-sourcing our dataset, raw results, and
evaluation framework, our work paves the way for rigorous analyses of data contamination in
modern models. We conclude with a discussion of best practices and future steps for publicly
releasing benchmarks in the age of LLMs that train on webscale data.
1 Introduction
Progress in machine learning has historically been driven by the use of benchmark datasets [ 56] to
demonstrate and ultimately improve model performance. In recent years, as large language models
(LLMs) have risen to prominence, these benchmarks are used to claim impressive capabilities across
a wide range of tasks [ 7], such as open-ended text and code generation. However, it has become
increasingly clear that evaluating on these benchmarks jeopardizes our ability to accurately compare
and assess modern models since static, open-source benchmarks are generally published on the
internet, and most modern LLMs incorporate internet text in their training data.
There are two main phenomena with which to be concerned. The first is contamination , which
refers to an LLM’s exposure, during training, to examples that are similar or identical to the examples
that the model will later be evaluated on. The second is memorization , which can be understood as
a property of a model that permits extraction of generated outputs that are exact or near-exact
replicas of examples seen during training. Both phenomena can pose security and privacy risks [ 12].
Additionally, as we discuss below, they can upwardly bias model performance estimates, obfuscating
our ability to compare models and attribute performance gains to true model improvements.
Despite these concerns, contamination and memorization remain deceptively challenging to
definitively measure and detect. While some researchers have used string-matching algorithms to
compare test to training datasets [ 8,55], many popular LLMs’ full training dataset details are
∗Correspondence to: {manley,samuel}@abacus.ai .
1arXiv:2310.10628v1 [cs.CL] 16 Oct 2023
not publicly available [ 50,58]. Additionally, string-matching produces false negatives when slight
variations exist in data between train and test [ 50]. Even concerted efforts to prevent any model
from training on a benchmark can fail. For example, the canary strings present in all BIG-Bench
files [60], which are designed to be checked and excluded by model trainers, were not sufficient to
keep BIG-bench out of GPT-4’s training corpus [ 50], partly because the success of this strategy relies
on the awareness and compliance of model trainers in the absence of an enforcement mechanism.
Recent works that look for contamination or memorization focus on popular benchmarks. They use
controlled experimentation on models trained with certain subsets of chosen datasets, recognizing
the value of comparing performance on examples that are seen vs. not seen during training [ 42,67].
In contrast, we take an experimental economics view and use a naturally occurring experiment—
i.e., the training cut-off date—to assess contamination and memorization. We exploit the known
training data cutoff dates of GPT-4 and GPT-3.5-Turbo [ 50,51] tonaturally partition benchmark
examples into subsets that have either probably been seen (pre-cutoff) or have probably1not been
seen (post-cutoff). To induce this natural split, we focus our analysis on longitudinal benchmarks
consisting of problems released over a period of time that bridges the cutoff.
In particular, we analyze Codeforces and Project Euler, two longitudinal code generation/problem
solving websites. These websites have steadily released problems since 2010 and 2001, respectively.
Informal analyses have shown that there are large drops in success rates of GPT-4 when evaluated
on older versus more recent problems from Codeforces [17, 22].
We build upon these insights by conducting the first rigorous, large-scale, longitudinal analysis of
contamination and memorization in code generation and problem-solving benchmarks. To the best
of our knowledge, we are the first to exploit the longitudinal nature of the benchmarks we analyze,
along with the known training cutoff dates of GPT-family models, to naturally identify examples
that the LLMs are likely/unlikely to have been exposed to during training, and use this partition to
compare LLM performance during the pre- and post-cutoff periods.
Our contributions. We summarize our core contributions below.
(i)We present the first large-scale, longitudinal analysis of contamination and memorization using a
naturally occurring experiment;
(ii)We give empirical findings demonstrating that GPT-4 and GPT-3.5-Turbo were likely exposed to
Codeforces and Project Euler, due to a statistically significant positive association we observe
between a problem’s presence on GitHub and each LLM’s test case pass rate onlyfor problems
released before the GPT training cutoff;
(iii) We open-source all code required to construct our longitudinal datasets and perform analyses.2
2 Related Work
Evaluation of Code Generation Models Code generation models are generative models that
try to produce valid code given an input of some representation of the programmatic behavior,
mathematical function, and/or computational task that the user would like to obtain. Modern code
1GPT-4 acknowledges training with some small amount of data beyond its cutoff [ 50], so post-cutoff examples may
still appear. GPT-3.5-Turbo, subject to similar reinforcement learning with human feedback (RLHF) as GPT-4 [ 50],
may have seen data beyond its cutoff as well.
2Our treatment of datasets and our evaluation framework are available at https://github.com/abacusai/
to-the-cutoff . We will release code and dataset contents to the extent possible while respecting the licensing
requirements of the dataset owners.
2
generation models include general models such as the GPT family [ 8,50], Llama 2 [ 58] or PaLM [ 16],
as well as a variety of task-specific code models: AlphaCode [ 38], CodeGen [ 48], CodeLLama [ 58],
PaLM-Coder [ 16], Starcoder [ 37]. Relevant code generation benchmarks include small sets of entirely
handwritten problems [ 15,48] as well as larger collections curated from internet sources such as code
interview sites, competitive programming forums, or general open source code: [ 1,3,23,25,64], and
some that include both original and online-sourced problems [ 38,63]. Code interview, practice, or
competition sites, offering problem descriptions and programmatic evaluation, are common choices
to assess modern LLM capabilities [ 17,22,47,68]—and indeed some public benchmarks feature
these problems [23, 38].
To asses the validity of solutions, many of these benchmarks include test cases. They use a
‘functional correctness’ metric based on passing these cases as the primary way to measure code
generation performance; evaluating with complexity/understandability metrics [ 47] is less common.
[15,33] employ the pass@kmetric, describing the likelihood at least one among ksampled generations
willpassalltestcases. Thebenefitofthesemetricsisthecompleteindependencefromeitherexpensive
human feedback or inherently constraining similarity-to-ground-truth NLP metrics [ 39,53] which
are often ineffective for code [ 61]. These metrics are in contrast to other popular LLM performance
metrics like perplexity [29, 32] or information retrieval based LLM metrics of accuracy [34, 52].
AdversarialFilteringandAdaptiveBenchmarksinNLP Test-timeexploitationofknowledge
gained via contamination or memorization can be seen as special cases of a more general phenomenon
in which language models appearto exhibit sophisticated reasoning capabilities but are in fact
exploiting shallower heuristics, with potentially negative consequences for generalizability [ 4]. Prior
work has demonstrated that domain-agnostic and domain-specific crowd worker-constructed natural
language inference (NLI) datasets—i.e., SNLI [ 6], MultiNLI [ 62], MedNLI [ 57]—contain spurious
correlations between lexical and syntactic features of the inputs and the corresponding class labels,
such that hypothesis-only baselines (i.e., without premise) are able to outperform majority-class
baselines [ 20,24,43,54]. Researchers have proposed a variety of detection and mitigation strategies,
including (1)adversarial filtering, in which an ensemble of classifiers are used to iteratively partition a
dataset into easyandhardsubsets [65];(2)introduction of stochasticity to the annotator prompting
process via randomly selected anchor words [ 59]; and(3)calls for the development of adversarially
adaptive rather than static benchmarks [66].
Memorization and Contamination in LLMs Many recent works have highlighted the security,
privacy, and generalizability risks of memorization and contamination during LLM training and
fine-tuning, while simultaneously proposing methods for detection and risk mitigation. [ 5,10,
42,45] investigate the training dynamics of memorization/contamination, seeking scaling laws,
early indications, and understanding of when and how memorization occurs in training. [ 12]
famously extract hundreds of verbatim train examples from GPT-2. [ 27] propose inference-time
tricks to prevent regurgitation of examples, and [ 28,31] give best practices to avoid benchmark
contamination. [ 10,11,12,30,35,42] investigate the relationship between duplicated training data
and memorization/contamination (in particular, [ 11] uses artificially introduced “canary" artifacts to
track memorization). [ 49] proposes a distance-based metrics to assess memorization. Several works
[42,67] evaluate the impact of memorization/contamination by estimating the difference in test-time
performance on examples seen vs. not seen during training; we will use a variation of this strategy.
3
[18] conduct a case study of the webcrawl corpus C4, including contamination investigation,
while others [ 2,13,19] conduct studies on the contamination of GPT models directly. [ 31] dives
deep into Hackerrank (an interview-prep coding platform) contamination in the Codex model by
not only assessing pass rates on full problems but also on partial problem snippets (e.g. the first
sentence alone). [ 19], a recent work, focuses in particular on comparing the result of prompting
for memorized completion with or without benchmark clues and concludes that GPT-4 has been
contaminated with several standard datasets; our analysis finds more contamination of GPT-4, but
differs by examining longitudinal datasets in order to view the effects of dataset portions before and
after training cutoffs.
3 Dataset Construction
Many open-source benchmarks [ 15] designed to evaluate code generation are released at a certain
point in time, evaluated on a number of models along with release, and then deployed repeatedly as
time goes on in order to evaluate new models’ performance on the benchmark. For a model with a
strict temporal training dataset cutoff, these benchmarks exist either firmly within or outside of the
training data, meaning that to evaluate the effect of the cutoff, we must compare between multiple
datasets (which, clearly, might have many differences beyond their release dates).
For this analysis, we concern ourselves with datasets with hand-written original problems that
are released at intervals over a long stretch of time. In particular, we require that a substantial
number of problems are produced before and after the GPT-4/GPT-3.5-Turbo cutoffs in September
2021, that the bulk of problems are of a format and size sufficient for prompting to modern LLMs,
and that there exists an automated objective measure of correctness for evaluation. We focus on
problems from the competitive programming website Codeforces (problems from 2010 - 2023) [ 46]
and from the mathematical programming puzzle website Project Euler (problems from 2001-2023)
[26], building off analyses from [17, 22].
Codeforces Codeforces is a website that hosts competitive programming competitions. Problems
are released in small batches corresponding to a particular round, and competitors submit solutions
against test cases, competing to produce the highest overall score by giving fast solutions. After a
competition ends, each competitor’s solutions are available online on the Codeforces platform, as
well as the test cases that were evaluated on each problem (which take the form of an input file and
expected output).
[9,23,38] assembled, in their respective datasets, a portion of Codeforces problems and test
cases through 2018 and 2021, respectively. However, only [ 38] contained any problems after the
GPT-4/3.5-Turbo cutoff, and it had so few problems after the cutoff that we needed to collect
Codeforces problems ourselves in order to have enough post-cutoff problems. In fact, we do not use
their version of the problems at all, instead collecting a full set of problems from 2010-2023 ourselves,
in order to ensure that the data quality is consistent for all problems. We do replicate many design
decisions from [ 38] including separating the “public” test cases (those simpler test cases available
in the problem description, fed to the model, and given during the competition to all competitors)
from the “private” test cases (those test cases reserved in secret at the release of a competition but
made public after some time).
We collected every problem on the Codeforces site through Codeforces Contest 1840, also known
as round 843 (which took place June 6, 2023), and removed problems for a variety of reasons including:
4
no test cases are found; testing is interactive and requires communicating with the Codeforces server;
a problem has no English-language version; a problem is given as a PDF and not HTML text; or a
problem is a special contest such as a private contest, a Q# quantum programming competition, or
an April Fools’ competition.
For each problem, we collect metadata, problem text (processed to clear some HTML artifacts),
and input/expected output text for public and private test cases. We forgo the compute-intensive
procedure of generating additional test cases for problems which was used by [ 38] and omit test
cases in which either the given input or output on the Codeforces platform end with “...”, as this
oftenindicates that the text is too long and has been abridged.
Project Euler Project Euler is a website that hosts difficult math problems with a string answer
that is usually a single number (integral or real). The recommended way to solve these problems
is to write code that will generate the answer. The answer itself can be submitted on the site and
compared directly to the private solution (there are no official public solutions). There are no test
cases except a comparison with the true answer.
We collect Project Euler problems through a combination of their metadata API and direct
scraping of problem pages. We collect problems through 845 (released May 2023) and use open-source
solutions from [ 41]. These solutions were collected in September 2023, but there are a few recent
problems through 845 without a solution from this source; these we omit.
4 Methodological Approach
The primary research questions we endeavor to explore through longitudinal analysis of pre- versus
post-cutoff LLM performance include: (1)Does there exist a statistically significant relationship
between a programming problem’s frequency of presence in open-source GitHub repositories and an
LLM’s ability to generate a functionally correct solution to that problem, and/or reproduce portions
of its metadata, such as the problem title or tags? (2)How or to what extent is this relationship
mediated by a problem’s reported difficulty? (3)Most critically—how or to what extent do (1) and
(2) change depending on whether a problem was released beforeversusafterthe LLM’s training
date cutoff? To answer these questions, we conduct analysis on output produced by GPT-4 and
GPT-3.5.-Turbo. The specific models used are gpt-4-0314 andgpt-3.5-turbo-0301 .3
Independent Variables To begin, we define the following set of independent variables (IVs):
GitHub Presence is a proxy metric intended to capture the frequency with which a problem is
publicly available on GitHub (similar to public Google and Bing API search used by [ 13] as a proxy for
online presence of books). For simplicity, it searches only for mention of the problem’s name and ID.
To compute GitHub Presence, we begin by collecting all public repositories that contain mentions of
the benchmark dataset of interest (i.e., Codeforces or Project Euler) as of our collection date4. Then,
for each problem of interest in a given dataset, we filter the dataset repositories and retain the subset
containing substring(s) that correspond to the problem’s title. We are then able to approximately
compute the number of times a problem poccurs as:P|dataset repos |
i=1 c(p, i)∀p∈ {dataset problems },
3We also collected data on the Text-Davinci-002 model, however the pass rates for this model are less than 1% and
therefore we omit from our analyses.
4The collection dates for this submission are July 2023 (Codeforces) and September 2023 (Project Euler)
5
where c(p, i)is the number of matches within repo i’s concatenated text to any one of a number of
format variations of p’s ID or title.
Difficulty intuitively captures how challenging a problem is for humans to solve. Both Codeforces
and Project Euler report difficulty scores as part of problem metadata.
Problem released post-cutoff is a Boolean variable to indicate whether a given problem was
released (i.e., published by the dataset owners) before(0) orafter(1) the training date cutoff for a
given LLM.
Dependent Variables To evaluate LLM performance, we consider the following set of dependent
variables (DVs):
Problem-level pass rate (pass rate) We assume that in the general case, a given problem pcan
be mapped to some number, np≥1of test cases (either public or private). For code generation tasks,
the question-level pass rate can then be computed as the fraction of test cases for which the code
generated by the LLM produces a functionally correct solution—i.e.,1
npPnp
i=1 1(λ(LLM (p)) =yi),
where λrepresents calling the LLM’s generated code and yirepresents the ground-truth output for
problem p’sithtest case. The special case where we ask the LLM to generate (only) the solution
rather than code can be represented by omitting the λcall in the above expression. We use code
generation on Codeforces and solution-only generation on Project Euler.
Title reproduction In each of the datasets we consider, each problem has a title. To compute
title reproduction for a given problem p, we provide as input the dataset name and problem ID, ask
the LLM to generate the problem’s title given this input, and evaluate the similarity between the
generated string, ˆtitle p, and p’s ground-truth title by mapping the title into a bag of tokens and
modeling the retrieval of each token as a separate observation in logistic regression. We include this
DV as a probe for possible memorization.
Tag reproduction Among the datasets we consider, only Codeforces problems contain descriptive
tags. Each tag is an n-gram that describes the intended approach or content of a problem, as well
as metadata like the difficulty. For example, Problem 500A has tags “dfs and similar”, “graphs”,
“implementation”, and “*1000”. For a given problem, p, we provide the problem’s title and ID as
input to the LLM, and ask it to produce a set of candidate tags. We evaluate token-level recall with
respect to the tokenized version of the problem’s ground-truth tag(s). Much like title reproduction,
this DV is included as a memorization probe.
We note that Pass @k[15] is an alternative outcome metric that is commonly reported within the
LLM evaluation literature, which explores the number of sampled generations that pass every unit
test of a problem. We can map our analyses onto Pass @1 since we generate one sample from each
LLM. However, we also look at the problem pass rate (defined above) since the number of unit tests
for Codeforces can be very large (sometimes over 500) and Pass Rate provides a more granular view
of model performance than Pass @1. In this paper, Pass @1 is defined as the number of problems that
pass all unit tests.
To answer the aforementioned research questions for each dataset and dependent variable, we
conduct regression analyses with problem-level performance as our unit of analysis, of the form:
DV∼(Difficulty + GitHub Presence )·postCutoff
Because the problem-level pass rate prediction task involves count data, we specifically formalize it
as a binomial regression, such that for a given problem, pwith a corresponding number of {public +
private} test cases, np, we seek to predict the number of successes—i.e., the number of test cases, out
6
ofnptrials that the LLM’s generated code and/or numeric solution will pass. In title reproduction,
the outcome of interest is binary—i.e., the LLM either doesordoes not successfully reproduce the
problem’s title; as such, we model this task using logistic regression. For tag reproduction, while
a problem’s tags can be set-valued, we tokenize the string of tags and evaluate the recall of each
token independently; as such, this task is also modeled using logistic regression. A more detailed
description of our modeling choices, along with interpretation guidance for the regression tables and
marginal effects plots, can be found in Appendix B.1.
In the regression tables below, we report coefficients as odds ratios where values equal to 1
indicate no impact of the variable on the Pass Rate. Coefficients greater than 1 indicate a positive
impact and those less than one indicate a negative impact. For example, an odds ratio coefficient of
1.352 would correspond to a 35.2% increase in the dependent variable associated with a unit increase
in the independent variable. 95% confidence intervals and pvalues are reported.
5 Results
We now report results from our experiments to investigate contamination in benchmarks over time.
We break this section into each independent and dependent variable, and analyze the results from
each model within each subsection.
Overall, we see strong trends that the performance of each model changes after the training
cutoff. These changes particularly highlight that there is a positive association between the presence
of questions on GitHub and the performance of the model; however, after the training cutoff, this
association disappears.
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 150 5 10 1510%20%30%40%50%60%
log(Github Presence)Pass Rate
log(Difficulty) 7.04 7.44 7.85Pass Rate Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−4 on Codeforces
Figure 1: Marginal Effects of Pass Rate Metric for GPT-4 on the Codeforces Dataset. Observe
a positive association between GitHub Presence before the cutoff but not after. Also, there is a
negative association between Difficulty and pass rate both before and after the cutoff.
7
5.1 Pass Rate
GitHub Presence First, we look at the performance of Pass Rate on the benchmark Codeforces,
where we report marginal effect plots for GPT-4 in Figure 1; GPT-3.5-Turbo is qualitatively similar
and can be found in Appendix Figure 3. We report regression coefficients for all models on Codeforces
in Table 1. On the Project Euler benchmark, we report marginal effect plots in Appendix Figures 8
and 9 and regression coefficients in Table 2. Note that Project Euler is a much smaller benchmark
with just 73 problems included after the training cutoff date in September 2021. Additionally, none
of the LLMs we tested got any of the questions correct for this set of 73 problems. We make several
observations.
Most strikingly, we see that the effect of the GitHub Presence variable is significant before the
training cut-off and is not significant after the training cutoff. For GPT-4, we observe that for
each increase in one unit of the log of GitHub Presence, we see the odds ratio increase by 4.5% on
Codeforces and 47.8% on Project Euler; for GPT-3.5-Turbo, that value is moderated slightly to 2.5%
on Codeforces and 27.7% on Project Euler. However, we see no statistically significant association
between GitHub Presence and GPT model performance for those problems which appeared online
afterthe training cutoff in September 2021 in Codeforces or Project Euler.
This post-cutoff performance degradation provides evidence of significant contamination and/or
memorization of pre-cutoff problems from Codeforces and Project Euler by both GPT-3.5-Turbo and
GPT-4. For the most part, the odds ratios are similar in terms of the direction and magnitude of their
effects on the pass rate odds for each LLM. Two points of distinction include: (1) GPT-4 performs
better across the board, as evidenced by higher odds of functional correctness for all difficulty levels
in both the pre- and post-cutoff periods as compared to GPT-3.5-Turbo. (2) For Codeforces, the
odds ratio for GitHub presence is equal to 1and is not statistically significant during the post-cutoff
period for GPT-4, but is >1(i.e., associated with increased odds of Y) and statistically significant
forα= 0.1during the same period for GPT-3.5-Turbo (see Table 1). While training details for
GPT-family models are generally secret, we propose as a possible explanation that GPT-3.5-Turbo
may have had higher train/finetune exposure to problems released after the cutoff date than GPT-45.
Difficulty When we examine results for GPT-4 and GPT-3.5-Turbo on Codeforces (see Table 1),
we see that there always exists a statistically significant, negative association between Difficulty
and pass rate for each LLM—i.e., this relationship is observed in both the pre- andpost-cutoff
periods. However, while each model’s post-cutoff Difficulty coefficient is <1, indicating a decrease
in the odds of pass rate these coefficients are statistically significantly larger than their corresponding
pre-cutoff values, suggesting a moderation in the still-negative relationship between Difficulty and
pass rate.
On the one hand, we can interpret the persistence of this relationship as evidence that the
LLMs’ inductive biases, while perhaps influenced by the effects of contamination and memorization,
are by no means solely determined by such artifacts. For this reason, we do not see equal (or
perhaps, equally poor) performance across problem difficulty levels in the post-period, but instead
see that LLM pass rates vary in accordance with difficulty even in the (hypothetical) absence of
contamination, much as they do for human programmers.
5As mentioned in Section 1, GPT-4 is known to have some post-cutoff events included in its training; since
GPT-3.5-Turbo uses a similar RLHF procedure [ 50], it’s possible it has been exposed as well—to a publicly unknown
extent.
8
Codeforces — Pass Rate
GPT-4 GPT-3.5-Turbo
Before Cutoff After Cutoff Before Cutoff After Cutoff
Difficulty 0.084 0.204 0.115 0.228
(0.082, 0.087) (0.183, 0.228) (0.112, 0.119) (0.202, 0.257)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.000∗p = 0.000∗p = 0.000∗
Github Presence 1.045 1.000 1.025 1.014
(1.039, 1.051) (0.986, 1.014) (1.019, 1.031) (0.998, 1.030)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.988 p = 0.000∗p = 0.081
Observations 6,738 1,378 6,738 1,378
Note:∗p<0.05
Table 1: Regression tables for Pass Rate of GPT4 and GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Codeforces dataset.
Observe that the odds ratios for both Difficulty andGithub Presence are statistically significantly
moderated between the before and after cutoffs for both models.
Project Euler — Pass Rate
GPT-4 GPT-3.5-Turbo
Before Cutoff After Cutoff Before Cutoff After Cutoff
Difficulty 0.145 1.000 0.165 1.000
(−0.171, 0.460) ( −∞,∞)(−0.166, 0.497) ( −∞,∞)
p = 0.000∗p = 1.000 p = 0.000∗p = 1.000
Github_Presence 1.478 1.000 1.277 1.000
(1.206, 1.749) ( −∞,∞)(0.986, 1.567) ( −∞,∞)
p = 0.005∗p = 1.000 p = 0.100 p = 1.000
Observations 765 72 765 72
Note:∗p<0.05
Table 2: Regression tables for Pass Rate of GPT4 and GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Project Euler dataset.
No problems are passed by either model after the cutoff.
9
Other possible contributing factors include: (1) variation in the number of test cases by difficulty
level, and/or over time; (2) more limited, but non-zero amounts of contamination or memorization of
the datasets we analyze; and (3) the presence of unobserved confounder(s) influencing change in both
problem difficulty and LLM pass rate over time. We test (1) by fitting a regression model to examine
whether Difficulty is able to predict the number of observed test cases after the cutoff, but do not
find Difficulty to have predictive power. Hypothesis (2) could be occurring, particularly given the
acknowledged GPT fine-tuning [ 50]; however, it is unlikely this is happening at high enough levels
to be a sufficient cause of observed behavior. We view the identification of possible confounders as a
promising direction for future work.
5.2 Title and Tag Reproduction
For title reproduction, we show regression tables in Appendix Tables 11-14 and Appendix Figures 10-
13. We conclude that across all models, there is no impact of GitHub Presence on the ability of the
LLMs to reproduce the title, both before and after the training cutoffs.
For tag reproduction, on the other hand, we find that there is a negative association between
GitHub Presence and the ability of the LLMs to reproduce the tag labels on Codeforces (there are
no tags associated with Project Euler). In Figure 15, Appendix Figure 14 and Appendix Tables 15
and 16, we can see that across the board, there is a negative association between Difficulty and
tag reproduction performance before the cutoff but there is no association after the cutoff. As the
regression results demonstrate, the negative association moderates after the cutoff, dropping from a
decrease of 56.9% to 17.4% in odds ratios from before to after the cutoff for GPT-4 and from 50.3%
to 26.1% for GPT-3.5-Turbo.
The way in which Codefoces problems are available online is one hypothesis as to why tags
reproduction is inversely related to GitHub presence, whereas title reproduction is not. Tags are
metadata for Codeforces problems which are notpresent in the main problem description. As such,
the tags may be less likely to be copied and pasted throughout the internet. Thus, it is possible that
those tags themselves undergo some interesting distribution shift which could explain their inverse
relationship with presence on GitHub.
5.3 Analysis Ablations
Public vs Private Test Cases As discussed in Section 3, the Codeforces problems contain both
public and private test cases. Public cases are readily available on the problem’s page whereas the
private cases can only be found by opening an accepted submission on the Codeforces platform.
Above, we analyzed the pass rate of each problem on all collected test cases. Now, we break these
out by public and private test cases to investigate any different trends between the two sets. We
consider only the private test cases in Figures 6-7 and Tables 7-8, whereas only the public test cases
in Figures 4-5 and Tables 5-6.
We see first that the two main trends we observed above hold, indicating the robustness of the
conclusions: contamination is likely since GitHub Presence is positively correlated with pass rate
only before the cutoff, and Difficulty has a negative association with pass rate. However, we
also observe, unexpectedly, that the pass rate after the cutoff is higher for the private test cases
than for the public test cases. This observation contrasts the typical perspective on Codeforces
which considers the public test cases to be simpler toy cases used as examples while coding whereas
the private cases are more thorough checks for correct behavior. To explain the discrepancy, we
10
hypothesize that this behavior may be related to the privatetest cases after the cutoff being, on
average, easier to answer than public test cases after the cutoff. There is no per-case difficulty score
available on Codeforces, but we can consider a simple heuristic: shorter inputs are simpler to answer,
and longer inputs are harder. Why might this effect be most noticeable after the cutoff? To answer,
we observe that while the median test case input string lengths for our public and private pre-cutoff
test cases are similar, at 18 and 21 characters, respectively, the median input lengths after the cutoff
diverge for public and private test cases: 38 for public and 27 for private. Further investigation into
the causes and consequences of this shift is a promising direction for future work.
6 Discussion
Utility of longitudinal analysis : The analytical framework we present in Section 4 can be viewed
as a way to approximately validate claims made about training date cutoffs for black box LLMs,
and/or exposure (or lack thereof) to a given dataset during training or fine-tuning, provided that
the dataset in question contains instances on each side of the model’s reported cutoff. This can
be valuable in cases where specific training details are not public, and/or when contamination or
memorization is suspected as a root cause of performance degradation when the model in question
is evaluated on newer problems. It is important to acknowledge that limitations also exist—for
example, we cannot rule out the presence of latent confounder(s) influencing both exposure (i.e., to
a given subset of problems) andLLM performance on those problems.
Implications for LLM evaluation : Our findings in Section 5 illustrate the extent to which
even high-quality, manually constructed benchmarks can be expected to enjoy ever-shorter shelf lives
in the era of LLMs, as newer models with updated training cutoff dates will iteratively render existing
benchmarks stale. Detection of memorization and contamination will likely remain challenging in
the general case, as many popular benchmarks have been released all at once rather than over time,
and as such, cannot be subjected to longitudinal analyses like the ones we perform. Additionally, in
open-ended domains such as code generation, we may fail to detect instances where the model has
been exposed to solution(s) for a given problem when the problem context itself is missing or latent
(i.e., by training on public repositories where people may not reproduce the questions their code is
intended to answer/solve).
Current mitigation options, including the use of private (i.e., offline, closed-source) benchmarks,
and/or benchmarks known to be constructed after the training cutoff for evaluation target(s) of
interest, are likely to be time-bound in their utility and may be cost-prohibitive to sustain over longer
time horizons, in the absence of exogenous shocks to the pace of LLM release cycles. Additionally,
reliance on private benchmarks may further erode transparency and lead to duplication of efforts as
challenging examples are detected and addressed in a more siloed fashion. Thus, while the need
for some set of open-source “goalposts” against which to measure progress, evaluate, and compare
LLMs is likely to persist, the way in which we construct, release, and evaluate against benchmark
datasets will need to become more dynamic. We urge the community to move away from static
benchmarks released in a single time step and toward continuous integration-style staggered release
and evaluation cycles.
11
References
[1]Rajas Agashe, Srinivasan Iyer, and Luke Zettlemoyer. Juice: A large scale distantly supervised
dataset for open domain context-based code generation. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference
on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP) , pages 5436–5446, 2019.
[2]Rachith Aiyappa, Jisun An, Haewoon Kwak, and Yong-Yeol Ahn. Can we trust the evaluation
on chatgpt?, 2023.
[3]Jacob Austin, Augustus Odena, Maxwell Nye, Maarten Bosma, Henryk Michalewski, David
Dohan, Ellen Jiang, Carrie Cai, Michael Terry, Quoc Le, and Charles Sutton. Program Synthesis
with Large Language Models, 2021.
[4]Emily M. Bender, Timnit Gebru, Angelina McMillan-Major, and Shmargaret Shmitchell. On
the dangers of stochastic parrots: Can language models be too big? In Proceedings of the 2021
ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency , FAccT ’21, page 610–623, New
York, NY, USA, 2021. Association for Computing Machinery.
[5]Stella Biderman, USVSN Sai Prashanth, Lintang Sutawika, Hailey Schoelkopf, Quentin Anthony,
Shivanshu Purohit, and Edward Raff. Emergent and predictable memorization in large language
models, 2023.
[6]Samuel R. Bowman, Gabor Angeli, Christopher Potts, and Christopher D. Manning. A large
annotated corpus for learning natural language inference, 2015.
[7]Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal,
Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel
Herbert-Voss, Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, Rewon Child, Aditya Ramesh, Daniel Ziegler,
Jeffrey Wu, Clemens Winter, Chris Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Mateusz Litwin, Scott
Gray, Benjamin Chess, Jack Clark, Christopher Berner, Sam McCandlish, Alec Radford, Ilya
Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. Language models are few-shot learners. In H. Larochelle,
M. Ranzato, R. Hadsell, M.F. Balcan, and H. Lin, editors, Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems , volume 33, pages 1877–1901. Curran Associates, Inc., 2020.
[8]Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal,
Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. Language models are
few-shot learners. Advances in neural information processing systems , 33:1877–1901, 2020.
[9] Ethan Caballero, . OpenAI, and Ilya Sutskever. Description2Code Dataset, 8 2016.
[10]Nicholas Carlini, Daphne Ippolito, Matthew Jagielski, Katherine Lee, Florian Tramer, and
Chiyuan Zhang. Quantifying memorization across neural language models, 2023.
[11]Nicholas Carlini, Chang Liu, Úlfar Erlingsson, Jernej Kos, and Dawn Song. The secret sharer:
Evaluating and testing unintended memorization in neural networks. In 28th USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Security 19) , pages 267–284, 2019.
[12]NicholasCarlini, FlorianTramer, EricWallace, MatthewJagielski, ArielHerbert-Voss, Katherine
Lee, Adam Roberts, Tom Brown, Dawn Song, Ulfar Erlingsson, Alina Oprea, and Colin Raffel.
Extracting training data from large language models, 2021.
12
[13]Kent K. Chang, Mackenzie Cramer, Sandeep Soni, and David Bamman. Speak, memory: An
archaeology of books known to chatgpt/gpt-4, 2023.
[14]Matt Chaput. Whoosh. https://whoosh.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ , 2012. [Online; ac-
cessed 4-October-2023].
[15]Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto,
Jared Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, Alex Ray, Raul
Puri, Gretchen Krueger, Michael Petrov, Heidy Khlaaf, Girish Sastry, Pamela Mishkin, Brooke
Chan, Scott Gray, Nick Ryder, Mikhail Pavlov, Alethea Power, Lukasz Kaiser, Mohammad
Bavarian, Clemens Winter, Philippe Tillet, Felipe Petroski Such, Dave Cummings, Matthias
Plappert, Fotios Chantzis, Elizabeth Barnes, Ariel Herbert-Voss, William Hebgen Guss, Alex
Nichol, Alex Paino, Nikolas Tezak, Jie Tang, Igor Babuschkin, Suchir Balaji, Shantanu Jain,
William Saunders, Christopher Hesse, Andrew N. Carr, Jan Leike, Josh Achiam, Vedant Misra,
Evan Morikawa, Alec Radford, Matthew Knight, Miles Brundage, Mira Murati, Katie Mayer,
Peter Welinder, Bob McGrew, Dario Amodei, Sam McCandlish, Ilya Sutskever, and Wojciech
Zaremba. Evaluating Large Language Models Trained on Code, 2021.
[16]Aakanksha Chowdhery, Sharan Narang, Jacob Devlin, Maarten Bosma, Gaurav Mishra, Adam
Roberts, Paul Barham, Hyung Won Chung, Charles Sutton, Sebastian Gehrmann, et al. Palm:
Scaling language modeling with pathways. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.02311 , 2022.
[17]ChrisCundy. Gpt-4memorizesprojecteulernumericalsolutions. https://cundy.me/post/gpt_
4_memorizes_project_euler_numerical_solutions/ , 2023. [Online; accessed 26-September-
2023].
[18]Jesse Dodge, Maarten Sap, Ana Marasović, William Agnew, Gabriel Ilharco, Dirk Groeneveld,
Margaret Mitchell, and Matt Gardner. Documenting large webtext corpora: A case study on
the colossal clean crawled corpus. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing , pages 1286–1305, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic,
November 2021. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[19]Shahriar Golchin and Mihai Surdeanu. Time travel in llms: Tracing data contamination in
large language models, 2023.
[20]Suchin Gururangan, Swabha Swayamdipta, Omer Levy, Roy Schwartz, Samuel Bowman, and
Noah A. Smith. Annotation artifacts in natural language inference data. In Proceedings of
the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 2 (Short Papers) , pages 107–112, New
Orleans, Louisiana, June 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[21]Charles R Harris, K Jarrod Millman, Stéfan J Van Der Walt, Ralf Gommers, Pauli Virtanen,
David Cournapeau, Eric Wieser, Julian Taylor, Sebastian Berg, Nathaniel J Smith, et al. Array
programming with numpy. Nature, 585(7825):357–362, 2020.
[22]Horace He. Tweet: I suspect gpt-4’s performance is influenced by data contamination, at least
on codeforces. of the easiest problems on codeforces, it solved 10/10 pre-2021 problems and
0/10 recent problems. this strongly points to contamination. 1/4, March 2023.
13
[23]Dan Hendrycks, Steven Basart, Saurav Kadavath, Mantas Mazeika, Akul Arora, Ethan Guo,
Collin Burns, Samir Puranik, Horace He, Dawn Song, et al. Measuring coding challenge
competence with apps. arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.09938 , 2021.
[24]Christine Herlihy and Rachel Rudinger. MedNLI is not immune: Natural language inference
artifacts in the clinical domain. In Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language
Processing (Volume 2: Short Papers) , pages 1020–1027, Online, August 2021. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
[25]Junjie Huang, Chenglong Wang, Jipeng Zhang, Cong Yan, Haotian Cui, Jeevana Priya Inala,
Colin Clement, Nan Duan, and Jianfeng Gao. Execution-based evaluation for data science code
generation models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.09374 , 2022.
[26]ColinHughes. Projecteuler. https://projecteuler.net , 2023. [Online; accessed26-September-
2023].
[27]Daphne Ippolito, Florian Tramèr, Milad Nasr, Chiyuan Zhang, Matthew Jagielski, Katherine
Lee, Christopher A. Choquette-Choo, and Nicholas Carlini. Preventing verbatim memorization
in language models gives a false sense of privacy, 2023.
[28]Alon Jacovi, Avi Caciularu, Omer Goldman, and Yoav Goldberg. Stop uploading test data in
plain text: Practical strategies for mitigating data contamination by evaluation benchmarks.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.10160 , 2023.
[29]Neel Jain, Khalid Saifullah, Yuxin Wen, John Kirchenbauer, Manli Shu, Aniruddha Saha, Micah
Goldblum, Jonas Geiping, and Tom Goldstein. Bring your own data! self-supervised evaluation
for large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.13651 , 2023.
[30]Nikhil Kandpal, Eric Wallace, and Colin Raffel. Deduplicating training data mitigates privacy
risks in language models. ArXiv, abs/2202.06539, 2022.
[31]Anjan Karmakar, Julian Aron Prenner, Marco D’Ambros, and Romain Robbes. Codex hacks
hackerrank: Memorization issues and a framework for code synthesis evaluation, 2022.
[32]John Kirchenbauer, Jonas Geiping, Yuxin Wen, Jonathan Katz, Ian Miers, and Tom Goldstein.
A watermark for large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.10226 , 2023.
[33]Sumith Kulal, Panupong Pasupat, Kartik Chandra, Mina Lee, Oded Padon, Alex Aiken, and
Percy S Liang. Spoc: Search-based pseudocode to code. Proceedings of the Annual Conference
on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , 32, 2019.
[34]Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Redfield, Michael Collins, Ankur Parikh, Chris
Alberti, Danielle Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Jacob Devlin, Kenton Lee, et al. Natural questions: a
benchmark for question answering research. Transactions of the Association for Computational
Linguistics , 7:453–466, 2019.
[35]Katherine Lee, Daphne Ippolito, Andrew Nystrom, Chiyuan Zhang, Douglas Eck, Chris Callison-
Burch, and Nicholas Carlini. Deduplicating training data makes language models better. In
Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume
14
1: Long Papers) , pages 8424–8445, Dublin, Ireland, May 2022. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
[36]Kiho Lee. Chatgpt_dan. https://github.com/0xk1h0/ChatGPT_DAN , 2023. [Online; accessed
4-October-2023].
[37]Raymond Li, Loubna Ben Allal, Yangtian Zi, Niklas Muennighoff, Denis Kocetkov, Chenghao
Mou, Marc Marone, Christopher Akiki, Jia Li, Jenny Chim, et al. Starcoder: may the source
be with you! arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.06161 , 2023.
[38]Yujia Li, David Choi, Junyoung Chung, Nate Kushman, Julian Schrittwieser, Rémi Leblond,
Tom Eccles, James Keeling, Felix Gimeno, Agustin Dal Lago, Thomas Hubert, Peter Choy,
Cyprien de Masson d’Autume, Igor Babuschkin, Xinyun Chen, Po-Sen Huang, Johannes Welbl,
Sven Gowal, Alexey Cherepanov, James Molloy, Daniel Mankowitz, Esme Sutherland Robson,
Pushmeet Kohli, Nando de Freitas, Koray Kavukcuoglu, and Oriol Vinyals. Competition-level
code generation with alphacode. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.07814 , 2022.
[39]Chin-Yew Lin. Rouge: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries. In Text summarization
branches out , pages 74–81, 2004.
[40]Edward Loper and Steven Bird. Nltk: The natural language toolkit. arXiv preprint cs/0205028 ,
2002.
[41]luckytoilet. Projecteuler-solutions. https://github.com/luckytoilet/
projecteuler-solutions , 2023.
[42]Inbal Magar and Roy Schwartz. Data contamination: From memorization to exploitation. In
Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume
2: Short Papers) , pages 157–165, Dublin, Ireland, May 2022. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
[43]Tom McCoy, Ellie Pavlick, and Tal Linzen. Right for the wrong reasons: Diagnosing syntactic
heuristics in natural language inference. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics , pages 3428–3448, Florence, Italy, July 2019. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
[44]Wes McKinney et al. pandas: a foundational python library for data analysis and statistics.
Python for high performance and scientific computing , 14(9):1–9, 2011.
[45]Fatemehsadat Mireshghallah, Archit Uniyal, Tianhao Wang, David Evans, and Taylor Berg-
Kirkpatrick. An empirical analysis of memorization in fine-tuned autoregressive language
models. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing , pages 1816–1826, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, December 2022. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
[46]Mike Mirzayanov. Codeforces. https://codeforces.com/ , 2023. [Online; accessed 26-
September-2023].
[47]Nhan Nguyen and Sarah Nadi. An empirical evaluation of github copilot’s code suggestions. In
Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Mining Software Repositories , MSR ’22,
page 1–5, New York, NY, USA, 2022. Association for Computing Machinery.
15
[48] Erik Nijkamp, Bo Pang, Hiroaki Hayashi, Lifu Tu, Huan Wang, Yingbo Zhou, Silvio Savarese,
and Caiming Xiong. Codegen: An open large language model for code with multi-turn program
synthesis. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) ,
2022.
[49] Harsha Nori, Nicholas King, Scott Mayer McKinney, Dean Carignan, and Eric Horvitz. Capa-
bilities of gpt-4 on medical challenge problems, 2023.
[50] OpenAI. Gpt-4 technical report. Technical Report , 2023.
[51]OpenAI. Openai platform documentation: Models. https://platform.openai.com/docs/
models, 2023. [Online; accessed 28-September-2023].
[52]Arka Pal, Deep Karkhanis, Manley Roberts, Samuel Dooley, Arvind Sundararajan, and Sid-
dartha Naidu. Giraffe: Adventures in expanding context lengths in llms. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2308.10882 , 2023.
[53]Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. Bleu: a method for automatic
evaluation of machine translation. In Proceedings of the 40th annual meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics , pages 311–318, 2002.
[54]Adam Poliak, Jason Naradowsky, Aparajita Haldar, Rachel Rudinger, and Benjamin Van Durme.
Hypothesis only baselines in natural language inference. In Proceedings of the Seventh Joint
Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics , pages 180–191, New Orleans, Louisiana,
June 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[55]Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan, Dario Amodei, Ilya Sutskever, et al.
Language models are unsupervised multitask learners. OpenAI blog , 1(8):9, 2019.
[56]Inioluwa Deborah Raji, Emily Denton, Emily M Bender, Alex Hanna, and Amandalynne
Paullada. Ai and the everything in the whole wide world benchmark. In Thirty-fifth Conference
on Neural Information Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track (Round 2) , 2021.
[57]Alexey Romanov and Chaitanya Shivade. Lessons from natural language inference in the
clinical domain. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing , pages 1586–1596, Brussels, Belgium, October-November 2018. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
[58]Baptiste Rozière, Jonas Gehring, Fabian Gloeckle, Sten Sootla, Itai Gat, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan,
Yossi Adi, Jingyu Liu, Tal Remez, Jérémy Rapin, et al. Code llama: Open foundation models
for code. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.12950 , 2023.
[59]Keisuke Sakaguchi, Ronan Le Bras, Chandra Bhagavatula, and Yejin Choi. Winogrande: An
adversarial winograd schema challenge at scale. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence , 34(05):8732–8740, Apr. 2020.
[60]Aarohi Srivastava, Abhinav Rastogi, Abhishek Rao, Abu Awal Md Shoeb, Abubakar Abid, Adam
Fisch, Adam R. Brown, Adam Santoro, Aditya Gupta, Adrià Garriga-Alonso, Agnieszka Kluska,
Aitor Lewkowycz, Akshat Agarwal, Alethea Power, Alex Ray, Alex Warstadt, Alexander W.
Kocurek, Ali Safaya, Ali Tazarv, Alice Xiang, Alicia Parrish, Allen Nie, Aman Hussain, Amanda
16
Askell, Amanda Dsouza, Ambrose Slone, Ameet Rahane, Anantharaman S. Iyer, Anders
Andreassen, Andrea Madotto, Andrea Santilli, Andreas Stuhlmüller, Andrew Dai, Andrew La,
Andrew Lampinen, Andy Zou, Angela Jiang, Angelica Chen, Anh Vuong, Animesh Gupta,
Anna Gottardi, Antonio Norelli, Anu Venkatesh, Arash Gholamidavoodi, Arfa Tabassum,
Arul Menezes, Arun Kirubarajan, Asher Mullokandov, Ashish Sabharwal, Austin Herrick,
Avia Efrat, Aykut Erdem, Ayla Karakaş, B. Ryan Roberts, Bao Sheng Loe, Barret Zoph,
Bartłomiej Bojanowski, Batuhan Özyurt, Behnam Hedayatnia, Behnam Neyshabur, Benjamin
Inden, Benno Stein, Berk Ekmekci, Bill Yuchen Lin, Blake Howald, Bryan Orinion, Cameron
Diao, Cameron Dour, Catherine Stinson, Cedrick Argueta, César Ferri Ramírez, Chandan
Singh, Charles Rathkopf, Chenlin Meng, Chitta Baral, Chiyu Wu, Chris Callison-Burch, Chris
Waites, Christian Voigt, Christopher D. Manning, Christopher Potts, Cindy Ramirez, Clara E.
Rivera, Clemencia Siro, Colin Raffel, Courtney Ashcraft, Cristina Garbacea, Damien Sileo,
Dan Garrette, Dan Hendrycks, Dan Kilman, Dan Roth, Daniel Freeman, Daniel Khashabi,
Daniel Levy, Daniel Moseguí González, Danielle Perszyk, Danny Hernandez, Danqi Chen,
Daphne Ippolito, Dar Gilboa, David Dohan, David Drakard, David Jurgens, Debajyoti Datta,
Deep Ganguli, Denis Emelin, Denis Kleyko, Deniz Yuret, Derek Chen, Derek Tam, Dieuwke
Hupkes, Diganta Misra, Dilyar Buzan, Dimitri Coelho Mollo, Diyi Yang, Dong-Ho Lee, Dylan
Schrader, Ekaterina Shutova, Ekin Dogus Cubuk, Elad Segal, Eleanor Hagerman, Elizabeth
Barnes, Elizabeth Donoway, Ellie Pavlick, Emanuele Rodola, Emma Lam, Eric Chu, Eric
Tang, Erkut Erdem, Ernie Chang, Ethan A. Chi, Ethan Dyer, Ethan Jerzak, Ethan Kim,
Eunice Engefu Manyasi, Evgenii Zheltonozhskii, Fanyue Xia, Fatemeh Siar, Fernando Martínez-
Plumed, Francesca Happé, Francois Chollet, Frieda Rong, Gaurav Mishra, Genta Indra Winata,
Gerard de Melo, Germán Kruszewski, Giambattista Parascandolo, Giorgio Mariani, Gloria
Wang, Gonzalo Jaimovitch-López, Gregor Betz, Guy Gur-Ari, Hana Galijasevic, Hannah Kim,
Hannah Rashkin, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Harsh Mehta, Hayden Bogar, Henry Shevlin, Hinrich
Schütze, Hiromu Yakura, Hongming Zhang, Hugh Mee Wong, Ian Ng, Isaac Noble, Jaap
Jumelet, Jack Geissinger, Jackson Kernion, Jacob Hilton, Jaehoon Lee, Jaime Fernández Fisac,
James B. Simon, James Koppel, James Zheng, James Zou, Jan Kocoń, Jana Thompson, Janelle
Wingfield, Jared Kaplan, Jarema Radom, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Jason Phang, Jason Wei,
Jason Yosinski, Jekaterina Novikova, Jelle Bosscher, Jennifer Marsh, Jeremy Kim, Jeroen Taal,
Jesse Engel, Jesujoba Alabi, Jiacheng Xu, Jiaming Song, Jillian Tang, Joan Waweru, John
Burden, John Miller, John U. Balis, Jonathan Batchelder, Jonathan Berant, Jörg Frohberg,
Jos Rozen, Jose Hernandez-Orallo, Joseph Boudeman, Joseph Guerr, Joseph Jones, Joshua B.
Tenenbaum, Joshua S. Rule, Joyce Chua, Kamil Kanclerz, Karen Livescu, Karl Krauth, Karthik
Gopalakrishnan, Katerina Ignatyeva, Katja Markert, Kaustubh D. Dhole, Kevin Gimpel,
Kevin Omondi, Kory Mathewson, Kristen Chiafullo, Ksenia Shkaruta, Kumar Shridhar, Kyle
McDonell, Kyle Richardson, Laria Reynolds, Leo Gao, Li Zhang, Liam Dugan, Lianhui Qin,
Lidia Contreras-Ochando, Louis-Philippe Morency, Luca Moschella, Lucas Lam, Lucy Noble,
Ludwig Schmidt, Luheng He, Luis Oliveros Colón, Luke Metz, Lütfi Kerem Şenel, Maarten
Bosma, Maarten Sap, Maartje ter Hoeve, Maheen Farooqi, Manaal Faruqui, Mantas Mazeika,
Marco Baturan, Marco Marelli, Marco Maru, Maria Jose Ramírez Quintana, Marie Tolkiehn,
Mario Giulianelli, Martha Lewis, Martin Potthast, Matthew L. Leavitt, Matthias Hagen, Mátyás
Schubert, Medina Orduna Baitemirova, Melody Arnaud, Melvin McElrath, Michael A. Yee,
Michael Cohen, Michael Gu, Michael Ivanitskiy, Michael Starritt, Michael Strube, Michał
Swędrowski, Michele Bevilacqua, Michihiro Yasunaga, Mihir Kale, Mike Cain, Mimee Xu, Mirac
17
Suzgun, Mitch Walker, Mo Tiwari, Mohit Bansal, Moin Aminnaseri, Mor Geva, Mozhdeh
Gheini, Mukund Varma T, Nanyun Peng, Nathan A. Chi, Nayeon Lee, Neta Gur-Ari Krakover,
Nicholas Cameron, Nicholas Roberts, Nick Doiron, Nicole Martinez, Nikita Nangia, Niklas
Deckers, Niklas Muennighoff, Nitish Shirish Keskar, Niveditha S. Iyer, Noah Constant, Noah
Fiedel, Nuan Wen, Oliver Zhang, Omar Agha, Omar Elbaghdadi, Omer Levy, Owain Evans,
Pablo Antonio Moreno Casares, Parth Doshi, Pascale Fung, Paul Pu Liang, Paul Vicol, Pegah
Alipoormolabashi, Peiyuan Liao, Percy Liang, Peter Chang, Peter Eckersley, Phu Mon Htut,
Pinyu Hwang, Piotr Miłkowski, Piyush Patil, Pouya Pezeshkpour, Priti Oli, Qiaozhu Mei, Qing
Lyu, Qinlang Chen, Rabin Banjade, Rachel Etta Rudolph, Raefer Gabriel, Rahel Habacker,
Ramon Risco, Raphaël Millière, Rhythm Garg, Richard Barnes, Rif A. Saurous, Riku Arakawa,
Robbe Raymaekers, Robert Frank, Rohan Sikand, Roman Novak, Roman Sitelew, Ronan
LeBras, Rosanne Liu, Rowan Jacobs, Rui Zhang, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Ryan Chi, Ryan Lee,
Ryan Stovall, Ryan Teehan, Rylan Yang, Sahib Singh, Saif M. Mohammad, Sajant Anand,
Sam Dillavou, Sam Shleifer, Sam Wiseman, Samuel Gruetter, Samuel R. Bowman, Samuel S.
Schoenholz, Sanghyun Han, Sanjeev Kwatra, Sarah A. Rous, Sarik Ghazarian, Sayan Ghosh,
Sean Casey, Sebastian Bischoff, Sebastian Gehrmann, Sebastian Schuster, Sepideh Sadeghi,
Shadi Hamdan, Sharon Zhou, Shashank Srivastava, Sherry Shi, Shikhar Singh, Shima Asaadi,
Shixiang Shane Gu, Shubh Pachchigar, Shubham Toshniwal, Shyam Upadhyay, Shyamolima,
Debnath, Siamak Shakeri, Simon Thormeyer, Simone Melzi, Siva Reddy, Sneha Priscilla Makini,
Soo-Hwan Lee, Spencer Torene, Sriharsha Hatwar, Stanislas Dehaene, Stefan Divic, Stefano
Ermon, Stella Biderman, Stephanie Lin, Stephen Prasad, Steven T. Piantadosi, Stuart M.
Shieber, Summer Misherghi, Svetlana Kiritchenko, Swaroop Mishra, Tal Linzen, Tal Schuster,
Tao Li, Tao Yu, Tariq Ali, Tatsu Hashimoto, Te-Lin Wu, Théo Desbordes, Theodore Rothschild,
Thomas Phan, Tianle Wang, Tiberius Nkinyili, Timo Schick, Timofei Kornev, Titus Tunduny,
Tobias Gerstenberg, Trenton Chang, Trishala Neeraj, Tushar Khot, Tyler Shultz, Uri Shaham,
Vedant Misra, Vera Demberg, Victoria Nyamai, Vikas Raunak, Vinay Ramasesh, Vinay Uday
Prabhu, Vishakh Padmakumar, Vivek Srikumar, William Fedus, William Saunders, William
Zhang, Wout Vossen, Xiang Ren, Xiaoyu Tong, Xinran Zhao, Xinyi Wu, Xudong Shen, Yadollah
Yaghoobzadeh, Yair Lakretz, Yangqiu Song, Yasaman Bahri, Yejin Choi, Yichi Yang, Yiding
Hao, Yifu Chen, Yonatan Belinkov, Yu Hou, Yufang Hou, Yuntao Bai, Zachary Seid, Zhuoye
Zhao, Zijian Wang, Zijie J. Wang, Zirui Wang, and Ziyi Wu. Beyond the imitation game:
Quantifying and extrapolating the capabilities of language models, 2023.
[61]Ngoc Tran, Hieu Tran, Son Nguyen, Hoan Nguyen, and Tien Nguyen. Does bleu score work for
code migration? In 2019 IEEE/ACM 27th International Conference on Program Comprehension
(ICPC), pages 165–176. IEEE, 2019.
[62]Adina Williams, Nikita Nangia, and Samuel R. Bowman. A broad-coverage challenge corpus for
sentence understanding through inference, 2018.
[63]Pengcheng Yin, Wen-Ding Li, Kefan Xiao, Abhishek Rao, Yeming Wen, Kensen Shi, Joshua
Howland, Paige Bailey, Michele Catasta, Henryk Michalewski, et al. Natural language to code
generation in interactive data science notebooks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.09248 , 2022.
[64]Daoguang Zan, Bei Chen, Dejian Yang, Zeqi Lin, Minsu Kim, Bei Guan, Yongji Wang, Weizhu
Chen, and Jian-Guang Lou. Cert: Continual pre-training on sketches for library-oriented code
generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.06888 , 2022.
18
[65]Rowan Zellers, Yonatan Bisk, Roy Schwartz, and Yejin Choi. Swag: A large-scale adversarial
dataset for grounded commonsense inference, 2018.
[66]Rowan Zellers, Ari Holtzman, Yonatan Bisk, Ali Farhadi, and Yejin Choi. HellaSwag: Can a
machine really finish your sentence? In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics , pages 4791–4800, Florence, Italy, July 2019. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
[67]Chiyuan Zhang, Daphne Ippolito, Katherine Lee, Matthew Jagielski, Florian Tramèr, and
Nicholas Carlini. Counterfactual memorization in neural language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2112.12938 , 2021.
[68]Zizhuo Zhang, Lian Wen, Shaoyang Zhang, David Chen, and Yanfei Jiang. Evaluating gpt’s
programming capability through codewars’ katas, 2023.
19
A Library Citations
Weciteseveralimpactfullibrariesusedduringourprojectandnotpresentelsewhereinthissubmission
[14, 21, 36, 40, 44].
B Additional Empirical Results
B.1 Regression Descriptions
As opposed to other forms of regression, logistic regression uses odds rather than probabilities, and
the main quantity explored is an odds ratio. For an event with probability p, the odds of that
event is defined as p/(1−p). Odds ratios explain the relationship between independent variables
(predictors or features) and the probability of the binary outcome. In logistic regression, we use
odds ratios to quantify the effect of a one-unit change in an independent variable on the odds of the
binary outcome. The odds ratio is defined as the ratio of the odds of a problem passing to the odds
that the problem doesn’t pass.
More formally, let Ybe the binary outcome variable indicating failure/success of a question
by an LLM where Y∈ {0,1}and we assume P(Y= 1) = p. Let X1, . . . , X nbe a set of predictor
variables. Then the logistic regression of YonX1, . . . , X nestimates parameters β0, . . . , β nthrough
maximum likelihood via the equation:
logit(p) = ln(p
1−p) =β0+β1X1+···+βnXn.
When we fit the regression, we obtain estimates for the βis. These fitted ˆβican be interpreted as
coefficients to the regression equation and provide intuition for how the independent variables Xi
influence the independent variable. Specifically, a fitted value of ˆβitells us that, keeping all other
variables constant, a one unit change in the variable Xiyields a change of ˆβiin the log odds ratio of
the independent variable. It is also common to exponentiate the fitted coefficients, in which case a
unit change in Xiwhile holding the other dependent variables constant yields a eˆβichange in the
odds ratio of the independent variable.
These eˆβiare odds ratios that take values between 0 and ∞. They provide insight into how a
change in the predictor variable Xiaffects the odds of the event occurring. If eˆβi= 1, it suggests
that the predictor variable has no effect on the odds of Y. Ifeˆβi>1, it suggests that an increase in
Xiis associated with increased odds of the event happening, specifically by providing a (1−eˆβi)%
increase in the odds of Y. Ifeˆβi>1, it suggests that an increase in Xiis associated with decreased
oddsof the event happening, specifically by providing a (1−eˆβi)% decrease in the odds of Y.
In our analyses, we are primarily interested in the independent variables GitHub Presence ,
Difficulty , and an indicator variable indicating whether a problem was released beforeorafterthe
training cutoff. Below, we report regression tables with estimated odds ratio coefficients as well as
marginal effects plots which visually depict the fitted regressions.
B.2 Pass Rate
In this section, we present the marginal effects on Pass Rate of GPT-4 and GPT-3.5-Turbo across
the Codeforces and Project Euler benchmarks.
20
B.2.1 All Codeforces Data
First, we present the marginal effects in Figures 2, 3 and regression coefficients in Tables 3, 4.
Table 3: Regression table for Pass Rate of GPT-4 on the Codeforces dataset
Dependent variable:
Pass Rate
Before Cutoff After Cutoff
(1) (2)
Difficulty 0.084 0.204
(0.082, 0.087) (0.183, 0.228)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.000∗
Github_Presence 1.045 1.000
(1.039, 1.051) (0.986, 1.014)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.988
Constant 37,541,216.000 36,517.320
(29,444,987.000, 47,895,732.000) (15,107.710, 88,780.010)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.000∗
Observations 6,738 1,378
Log Likelihood −61,829.330 −3,358.241
Akaike Inf. Crit. 123,664.700 6,722.482
Note:∗p<0.05
B.2.2 Public Codeforces Data
Second, we evaluate only on the public test cases of Codeforces and produce the marginal effect
plots in Figures 4, 5 and regression coefficients in Tables 5, 6.
B.2.3 Private Codeforces Data
Finally, we consider only the private test cases and get the marginal effect plots shown in Figures 6,
7 and regression coefficients in Tables 7, 8.
B.3 Project Euler
Finally, we report pass rates on Project Euler in Figures 8 and 9. We also present the regression
coefficients in Tables 9 and 10.
21
Table 4: Regression table for Pass Rate of GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Codeforces dataset
Dependent variable:
Pass Rate
Before Cutoff After Cutoff
(1) (2)
Difficulty 0.115 0.228
(0.112, 0.119) (0.202, 0.257)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.000∗
Github_Presence 1.025 1.014
(1.019, 1.031) (0.998, 1.030)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.081
Constant 2,785,763.000 9,989.318
(2,186,846.000, 3,550,635.000) (3,842.640, 26,109.620)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.000∗
Observations 6,738 1,378
Log Likelihood −53,163.010 −2,611.597
Akaike Inf. Crit. 106,332.000 5,229.195
Note:∗p<0.05
22
Table 5: Regression table for Pass Rate of GPT-4 on the Codeforces dataset (public test cases only)
Dependent variable:
Pass Rate (Public)
Before Cutoff After Cutoff
(1) (2)
Difficulty 0.123 0.834
(0.111, 0.136) (0.624, 1.116)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.221
Github_Presence 1.044 0.998
(1.025, 1.064) (0.964, 1.033)
p = 0.00001∗p = 0.895
Constant 2,289,357.000 0.647
(1,039,859.000, 5,071,964.000) (0.064, 6.445)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.712
Observations 6,738 1,378
Log Likelihood −7,401.629 −712.065
Akaike Inf. Crit. 14,809.260 1,430.131
Note:∗p<0.05
23
Table 6: Regression table for Pass Rate of GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Codeforces dataset (public test
cases only)
Dependent variable:
Pass Rate (Public)
Before Cutoff After Cutoff
(1) (2)
Difficulty 0.158 1.046
(0.143, 0.175) (0.744, 1.478)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.798
Github_Presence 1.026 0.998
(1.006, 1.047) (0.960, 1.038)
p = 0.011∗p = 0.919
Constant 252,046.800 0.080
(112,369.300, 568,103.500) (0.005, 1.190)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.069
Observations 6,738 1,378
Log Likelihood −6,509.633 −562.326
Akaike Inf. Crit. 13,025.270 1,130.652
Note:∗p<0.05
24
Table 7: Regression table for Pass Rate of GPT-4 on the Codeforces dataset (private test cases only)
Dependent variable:
Pass Rate (Private)
Before Cutoff After Cutoff
(1) (2)
Difficulty 0.081 0.147
(0.078, 0.084) (0.129, 0.166)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.000∗
Github_Presence 1.045 0.997
(1.039, 1.052) (0.982, 1.012)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.684
Constant 49,836,120.000 489,263.300
(38,601,946.000, 64,387,980.000) (181,481.600, 1,331,364.000)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.000∗
Observations 6,199 811
Log Likelihood −57,209.440 −2,805.794
Akaike Inf. Crit. 114,424.900 5,617.588
Note:∗p<0.05
25
Table 8: Regression table for Pass Rate of GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Codeforces dataset (private test
cases only)
Dependent variable:
Pass Rate (Private)
Before Cutoff After Cutoff
(1) (2)
Difficulty 0.112 0.168
(0.109, 0.116) (0.147, 0.192)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.000∗
Github_Presence 1.025 1.014
(1.018, 1.031) (0.996, 1.031)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.128
Constant 3,466,225.000 107,436.200
(2,689,134.000, 4,470,585.000) (37,418.200, 311,168.500)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.000∗
Observations 6,199 811
Log Likelihood −49,559.860 −2,208.268
Akaike Inf. Crit. 99,125.730 4,422.537
Note:∗p<0.05
26
Table 9: Regression table for Pass Rate of GPT4 on the Project Euler dataset
Dependent variable:
Pass Rate
Before Cutoff After Cutoff
(1) (2)
Difficulty 0.145 1.000
(0.104, 0.196) (0.000, Inf.000)
p = 0.000∗p = 1.000
Github_Presence 1.478 1.000
(1.131, 1.949) (0.000, Inf.000)
p = 0.005∗p = 1.000
Constant 0.323 0.000
(0.007, 15.405) (0.000, Inf.000)
p = 0.567 p = 1.000
Observations 765 72
Log Likelihood −170.511 −0.000
Akaike Inf. Crit. 347.023 6.000
Note:∗p<0.05;∗∗p<[0.**];∗∗∗p<[0.***]
27
Table 10: Regression table for Pass Rate of GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Project Euler dataset
Dependent variable:
Pass Rate
Before Cutoff After Cutoff
(1) (2)
Difficulty 0.165 1.000
(0.117, 0.228) (0.000, Inf.000)
p = 0.000∗p = 1.000
Github_Presence 1.277 1.000
(0.961, 1.716) (0.000, Inf.000)
p = 0.100 p = 1.000
Constant 0.839 0.000
(0.012, 56.905) (0.000, Inf.000)
p = 0.936 p = 1.000
Observations 765 72
Log Likelihood −140.542 −0.000
Akaike Inf. Crit. 287.084 6.000
Note:∗p<0.05;∗∗p<[0.**];∗∗∗p<[0.***]
28
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 150 5 10 1510%20%30%40%50%60%
log(Github Presence)Pass Rate
log(Difficulty) 7.04 7.44 7.85Pass Rate Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−4 on CodeforcesFigure 2: Marginal Effects of Pass Rate for GPT-4 on the Codeforces Dataset
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 150 5 10 1510%20%30%40%50%
log(Github Presence)Pass Rate
log(Difficulty) 7.04 7.44 7.85Pass Rate Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−3.5−Turbo on Codeforces
Figure 3: Marginal Effects of Pass Rate for GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Codeforces Dataset
B.4 Title Reproduction
Here, we present the marginal effects on the Title Reproduction metric for GPT-4 and GPT-3.5-Turbo
across the Codeforces and Project Euler benchmarks in Figures 11, 10, 12 and 13. We also present
the regression coefficients in Tables 11, 12, 13 and 14.
29
Table 11: Regression table for Title Reproduction of GPT-4 on the Codeforces dataset
Dependent variable:
Title Reproduction
Before Cutoff After Cutoff
(1) (2)
Difficulty 0.897 0.898
(0.826, 0.974) (0.756, 1.067)
p = 0.010∗p = 0.222
Github_Presence 1.010 1.005
(0.994, 1.026) (0.982, 1.028)
p = 0.210 p = 0.684
Constant 0.817 0.750
(0.418, 1.598) (0.191, 2.956)
p = 0.556 p = 0.682
Observations 18,446 3,954
Log Likelihood −11,074.250 −2,265.482
Akaike Inf. Crit. 22,154.490 4,536.963
Note:∗p<0.05
30
Table 12: Regression table for Title Reproduction of GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Codeforces dataset
Dependent variable:
Title Reproduction
Before Cutoff After Cutoff
(1) (2)
Difficulty 0.839 0.709
(0.719, 0.979) (0.510, 0.984)
p = 0.026∗p = 0.041∗
Github_Presence 1.010 0.973
(0.981, 1.041) (0.931, 1.016)
p = 0.506 p = 0.216
Constant 0.220 0.954
(0.063, 0.764) (0.071, 13.105)
p = 0.018∗p = 0.972
Observations 18,446 3,954
Log Likelihood −4,293.516 −869.667
Akaike Inf. Crit. 8,593.032 1,745.333
Note:∗p<0.05
31
Table 13: Regression table for Title Reproduction of GPT4 on the Project Euler dataset
Dependent variable:
Title Reproduction
Before Cutoff After Cutoff
(1) (2)
Difficulty 0.780 0.946
(0.699, 0.870) (0.631, 1.438)
p = 0.00001∗p = 0.793
Github_Presence 1.014 0.998
(0.962, 1.073) (0.741, 1.344)
p = 0.608 p = 0.991
Constant 0.848 0.508
(0.349, 1.980) (0.008, 29.457)
p = 0.709 p = 0.745
Observations 2,556 190
Log Likelihood −1,536.829 −114.284
Akaike Inf. Crit. 3,079.658 234.568
Note:∗p<0.05;∗∗p<[0.**];∗∗∗p<[0.***]
32
Table 14: Regression table for Title Reproduction of GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Project Euler dataset
Dependent variable:
Title Reproduction
Before Cutoff After Cutoff
(1) (2)
Difficulty 1.178 0.643
(0.934, 1.517) (0.136, 4.339)
p = 0.184 p = 0.589
Github_Presence 0.981 1.283
(0.898, 1.094) (0.339, 6.026)
p = 0.696 p = 0.715
Constant 0.044 0.002
(0.007, 0.198) (0.000, 51,280.610)
p = 0.0002∗p = 0.505
Observations 2,556 190
Log Likelihood −564.246 −10.900
Akaike Inf. Crit. 1,134.492 27.801
Note:∗p<0.05;∗∗p<[0.**];∗∗∗p<[0.***]
33
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 150 5 10 1520%40%60%
log(GitHub Presence)Pass Rate
log(Difficulty) 7.04 7.44 7.85Pass Rate Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−4 on Codeforces (Public)Figure 4: Marginal Effects of Pass Rate for GPT-4 on the Codeforces Dataset (evaluated on public
test cases only)
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 150 5 10 1510%20%30%40%50%
log(GitHub Presence)Pass Rate
log(Difficulty) 7.04 7.44 7.85Pass Rate Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−3.5−Turbo on Codeforces (Public)
Figure 5: Marginal Effects of Pass Rate for GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Codeforces Dataset (evaluated on
public test cases only)
34
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 150 5 10 1510%20%30%40%50%60%
log(GitHub Presence)Pass Rate
log(Difficulty) 7.06 7.46 7.86Pass Rate Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−4 on Codeforces (Private)Figure 6: Marginal Effects of Pass Rate for GPT-4 on the Codeforces Dataset (evaluated on private
test cases only)
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 150 5 10 1510%20%30%40%50%
log(GitHub Presence)Pass Rate
log(Difficulty) 7.06 7.46 7.86Pass Rate Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−3.5−Turbo on Codeforces (Private)
Figure 7: Marginal Effects of Pass Rate for GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Codeforces Dataset (evaluated on
private test cases only)
B.5 Tag Reproduction
Here, we present the marginal effects on the Tag Reproduction metric for GPT-4 and GPT-3.5-Turbo
across the Codeforces and Project Euler benchmarks in Figures 15 and 14. We also present the
35
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 15 0 5 10 150%25%50%75%100%
log(Github Presence)Pass Rate
log(Difficulty) 2.84 3.62 4.41Pass Rate Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−4 on Project EulerFigure 8: Marginal Effects of Pass Rate for GPT-4 on the Project Euler Dataset
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 15 0 5 10 150%25%50%75%100%
log(Github Presence)Pass Rate
log(Difficulty) 2.84 3.62 4.41Pass Rate Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−3.5−Turbo on Project Euler
Figure 9: Marginal Effects of Pass Rate for GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Project Euler Dataset
regression coefficients in Tables 16 and 15.
36
Table 15: Regression table for Tag Reproduction of GPT-4 on the Codeforces dataset
Dependent variable:
Tags Reproduction
Before Cutoff After Cutoff
(1) (2)
Difficulty 0.431 0.826
(0.400, 0.465) (0.707, 0.966)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.017∗
Github_Presence 0.991 0.999
(0.977, 1.005) (0.981, 1.017)
p = 0.195 p = 0.888
Constant 310.696 1.026
(168.396, 573.834) (0.299, 3.508)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.968
Observations 24,474 6,425
Log Likelihood −15,399.190 −3,172.626
Akaike Inf. Crit. 30,804.370 6,351.252
Note:∗p<0.05
37
Table 16: Regression table for Tag Reproduction of GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Codeforces dataset
Dependent variable:
Tags Reproduction
Before Cutoff After Cutoff
(1) (2)
Difficulty 0.497 0.739
(0.452, 0.547) (0.619, 0.883)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.001∗
Github_Presence 0.959 1.001
(0.942, 0.976) (0.980, 1.022)
p = 0.00001∗p = 0.955
Constant 56.613 1.540
(26.265, 121.894) (0.380, 6.228)
p = 0.000∗p = 0.545
Observations 24,474 6,425
Log Likelihood −10,635.220 −2,587.031
Akaike Inf. Crit. 21,276.450 5,180.061
Note:∗p<0.05
38
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 150 5 10 1521%24%27%30%
log(Github Presence)Title Reproduction
log(Difficulty) 7.05 7.45 7.86Title Reproduction Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−4 on CodeforcesFigure 10: Marginal Effects of Title Reproduction Metric for GPT-4 on the Codeforces Dataset
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 150 5 10 154%6%8%10%
log(Github Presence)Title Reproduction
log(Difficulty) 7.05 7.45 7.86Title Reproduction Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−3.5−Turbo on Codeforces
Figure 11: Marginal Effects of Title Reproduction Metric for GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Codeforces
Dataset
39
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 15 0 5 10 150%25%50%75%100%
log(Github Presence)Title Reproduction
log(Difficulty) 2.91 3.67 4.42Title Reproduction Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−4 on Project EulerFigure 12: Marginal Effects of Title Reproduction Metric for GPT-4 on the Project Euler Dataset
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 15 0 5 10 150%25%50%75%100%
log(Github Presence)Title Reproduction
log(Difficulty) 2.91 3.67 4.42Title Reproduction Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−3.5−Turbo on Project Euler
Figure 13: Marginal Effects of Title Reproduction Metric for GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Project Euler
Dataset
40
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 150 5 10 1520%30%40%
log(Github Presence)Tags Reproduction
log(Difficulty) 7.14 7.52 7.89Tags Reproduction Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−4 on CodeforcesFigure 14: Marginal Effects of Tag Reproduction Metric for GPT-4 on the Codeforces Dataset
Problems Released Before Cutoff Problems Released After Cutoff
0 5 10 150 5 10 1510%15%20%25%30%
log(Github Presence)Tags Reproduction
log(Difficulty) 7.14 7.52 7.89Tags Reproduction Marginal Effects Plots for GPT−3.5−Turbo on Codeforces
Figure 15: Marginal Effects of tag Reproduction Metric for GPT-3.5-Turbo on the Codeforces
Dataset
41